UNREVIEWED MACHINE TRANSCRIPTION of the English audio/interpretation track. Not an official UN record. Speaker identities are not inferred. Verify against the recording.
https://webtv.un.org/en/asset/k1x/k1xeh5op6m

[55.70-82.22]  Welcome to Golsom. We are gathering at a time when many of the assumptions that have shaped the international system are being really tested. Geopolitical dynamics are shifting, AI is transforming our societies at unprecedented speed, and countries are navigating growing uncertainty on multiple fronts. Moments like these also create an opportunity for reflection.
[82.22-111.89]  Today's conversation offers a chance to hear a global leader's perspective on the state of the world and our future. To guide the discussion, I'm very pleased to welcome our moderator, Shilah Raghav. Shilah, come on over, the stage is yours. Thank you so much Anne-Marie for having me. I think the highlight of every climate week for me is always getting to spend time in this space with all of you.
[111.89-130.78]  And as Anne-Marie mentioned, our conversation is really going to focus on the broader context of the global challenges that we're facing. And I think we can all appreciate that what's shaping the world cannot be addressed or solved by any one country alone. That is quite literally the whole point of the United Nations.
[130.78-159.86]  What we know is that it requires courage, it requires leadership, cooperation, but also thinking about how we manage these systems for the long term. And I'm so delighted to be joined by a leader whose country has long demonstrated the value of dialogue, partnership, courageous leadership, and principled engagement on the global stage. As the Prime Minister of Iceland, she brings both the perspective of a small state deeply connected to the international system and the experience
[159.86-191.41]  of leading through a period of rapid change. Please welcome to the stage, Christron Frosta Dothar, who is the Prime Minister of Iceland. Thank you so much. Lovely to be on stage with you. Thanks for having me. Yeah, so I'd like to kick us off by really thinking about the context and the world that we're in, which feels so uncertain, feels so volatile, and there's a lot of change management that's required.
[191.41-220.19]  at the local level, but also at the international level. And you've led through a period where a lot of the assumptions and the incumbent systems are being reimagined or questioned, even the multilateral system is being questioned. From where you sit, what feels fundamentally different about what we're experiencing now to potentially what we were seeing a decade ago? I don't think you actually have to go back that far.
[220.19-248.11]  I've been in this job for a couple of years, and I feel like a lot of what feels like normal today was very abnormal, maybe just a couple of years ago, the line of speak, how people communicate, a part of that's just technology and how media works. So if you are being fair about it, maybe you have to dig deep and say, okay, a lot of the conversations that were taking place behind the doors may have been pretty harsh, but now they're sort of in the open. But I mean,
[248.11-276.30]  I think for a country like Iceland, it's been an eye-opener for a lot of people that this basically post-war piece that we grew up with as an independent country wasn't a given. And by that, I don't mean necessarily direct wars, but just the way people conduct dialogue, democratic institutions. I mean, we basically got our independence during
[276.30-302.37]  World War II. And so we've grown up as a country in a world where we have the UN, where we have NATO, IMF, World Bank, all these institutions and people have sort of just taken them for granted because they don't remember the world before that as an independent country that is. So I think we can't be naive that the world has changed in a way maybe
[302.37-329.54]  we assume that we wouldn't have to struggle for things anymore, especially in sort of the richer part of the world. But we also just have to deal with the situation as it is. Yeah, so in terms of where you find yourself, so Iceland is a country that doesn't have a vast population or large military or, you know, aircraft carriers and rockets and submarines and that many other countries flaunt.
[329.54-359.47]  What does this moment teach us about the importance and potentially the fragility of multilateralism as you're thinking about the interconnectedness? I mean we are a country that survives because of international law. If we move into an area where power like rough power and light is right becomes the norm, this is a very dangerous situation for a country like Iceland.
[359.47-386.46]  So that's why we show up to these things. That's why we always say these cliches. There aren't cliches. They're just a matter of protecting the rights of smaller states, medium states, and even in today's world, sometimes larger states that are being invaded. So multilateralism has been a lifeline for us. It's been really important. That being said, I mean, we can be fully...
[386.46-395.38]  open to the fact that today's multilateralism doesn't necessarily represent the world as it is today. So I do think a lot of the frictions that are coming up.
[395.38-425.12]  that in some cases are domestically driven by larger countries, because it's a domestic struggle also, who pays into the system, who is carrying much of the weight. If people feel like they're not being represented by the system, that needs to be changed. And I think a lot of the discussions going on in the UN right now revolve around this. How do you change multilateralism instead of setting it aside? And we need to be a big part of that conversation as well.
[425.12-453.07]  massive trend towards countries trying to isolate themselves and with this notion that to be competitive, you have to either increase tariffs or you have to put in place measures that are actually counteractive to cooperation. In what cases are you seeing genuine opportunities for collaboration where it's becoming, where there's less friction towards cooperating internationally?
[453.90-478.11]  So I do think the silver lining coming out of what people might feel is more struggle in international politics. I mean, I don't want to be simplistic about this because we've had issues globally for a long time. There are just certain parts of the world that have had peace or had good communications. And we tend to view the global world through the lens of
[478.11-507.73]  of Europe or North America, but we've obviously had issues when it comes to wars and under development across the world. But I think we need to focus on country groupings. With that, I'm not saying there have to be country blocks. This can be across continents. It can be across cultures. But I think increasingly people are starting to realize that you can't just come to the table and say we need all
[507.73-531.10]  countries to be on this for something to succeed. You can also bring together certain ideas and smaller groupings and then giving it momentum and putting it on the table. I mean, a good example of this would be for Iceland within the group of Nordics. I mean, this is a small population area, but it has a really strong voice and it's tended to be a leader when it comes to welfare, when it comes to social policy.
[531.10-559.63]  policies, a lot of the things that we've been doing in childcare, women's rights, education, seemed extreme maybe just a few decades ago but now is more mainstream. And so we tend to come together as a group and focus on something and then we lift it at the European level and then it can be lifted at another level and we tend to bring other countries in. And then there might be some issues that we can't work with some countries on but we can work with them on other things, right?
[559.63-586.99]  I don't agree with every single thing that my ally does in every single area. That doesn't mean I don't have a conversation with them. So I think we have to bring those country groupings to the table and then try to lift things and get a stronger voice on it. So it's almost like this multiple bilateralism or thinking about combinations of different groupings because you're not going to agree with everyone and everything, but on climate it may be from a particular perspective.
[586.99-612.22]  on other issues, even when it comes to national security or peace, you obviously have to look at your backyard, you have to look at your region and what's shifting the dynamic of your region. And even when it comes to issues like deep sea bed mining or now with the Arctic ice melting, how do you manage the resources in the Arctic? That's going to require another particular type of cooperation. Yeah, definitely. And like I said, I mean, this can be across the board.
[612.22-626.75]  For example, our relationship with the US, it's always been, I mean, obviously it's been cultural based. I don't want to say that it's just been transactional. But if I'm honest, I mean, so the US was the first country, for example, that recognized us as a republic.
[626.75-656.18]  A lot of people don't know this. And maybe feel like with things going on in the world, this is like new information for people. But listen, the United States was a big influence in Iceland's independence. We joined NATO with the US as a founding member. We have a bilateral defense agreement with the US. So a lot of our communication on an everyday level is defense-based and sort of transactional in that way. But we obviously have a rich trade history as well. Then if we want to
[656.18-683.79]  to talk about human rights. I mean, we have a lot of coalitions with other parts of the world. I mean, with smaller countries like Slovenia or Spain, we've done things on Gaza and Palestine. And like I said, with welfare and technology, we've done things with the Nordics. We've done geothermal with China. We do different things, but that doesn't mean we don't also show up and tell people how we feel about
[683.79-707.23]  certain things in the world, right? Because we're top of the line when it comes to human rights, equality of gender, violence against women, this type of thing. So you can have that type of communication but still come to a bilateral meeting and have a message as well, right? Yeah. Now let's shift gears and talk about some of these civilizational threats.
[707.23-733.41]  I don't think there's any conversation that doesn't touch on artificial intelligence. Yeah, it's SI now. Oh, yeah. Super intelligence. Super intelligence. Okay, great. Well, maybe that acronym will have to be replaced. But as we think about SI or AI, it's not just a technology that we've had to manage, like technologies that have developed in the past. It's fundamentally reshaping both.
[733.41-759.20]  how we use resources when you think about the amount of compute and water that's necessary for AI, but also how it changes how we work, even potentially how we govern the speed and scale that we could potentially even accelerate or take up climate solutions or potentially going in the other direction. What do you think that we're still underestimating? There's a lot of discussion around regulating.
[759.20-778.75]  AI or the growth of irresponsible AI. How do you think about this from a governance perspective? I mean, I want to be positive about it. There's definitely a lot of developments going on in AI that from a governance perspective would be positive, right?
[778.75-807.90]  Just a lot of the procedures that we go through with government. Everyone is always wondering how you balance the budget, how you reduce costs, how you get people to spend more time with people instead of doing all the paperwork, right? This is what a lot of people that work in government are trying to work on. More people to people communication. But I would say my biggest concern is just what this means to our sort of sense of self as human beings.
[807.90-832.86]  Because our strength isn't maybe the war, but our identities have been focused on the fact that as a species, we are superior to everything else, right? We are the best in line when it comes to thinking. We are the ones that bring in the solutions. We basically supersede everything else in our...
[832.86-862.82]  in our world, which has also led to terrible things when it comes to environment and climate. But my point is, it's an ego thing for us. And then all of a sudden we're developing something that's supposed to be smarter than the rest of us. I wonder what it's going to do with a sense of self. Also when we have these types of machine learning where people might not have the ability to actually understand why they're doing what they're doing. Because a lot of what we do in government is also based on a sense of
[862.82-887.15]  some sort of human meaning, right? Like empathy, respect, you know, standing up for something and how easy is it to have machines or AI to get to that level? So that is probably the trickiest thing about running a country or governing, it's finding the balance between, you know, technically doing the right thing and then understanding the human factor of it.
[887.15-915.84]  And if you bring that together and the fact that we've always felt like we're the ones that have the best solutions, like what happens in a world where technology takes that away from us, I don't think people have really thought that through. And I think, you know, tying back to discussions on, you know, democracy or polarization, I mean, the biggest issue that we have today is I think a lack of respect and empathy between groups. And I just, I don't know how AI is going to solve that.
[915.84-935.33]  or if it's gonna put us in a more compromising position. This sounds very bleak, but these are things that I think of when we talk about AI. Yeah, and I think that's such an important point that our identities and our sense of self, what we derive pride from, what we derive our purpose from, if that's taken away.
[935.33-959.44]  or if we're not building the skills to develop and cultivate that, then it's an erasure of an identity and of a purpose and a meaning and fulfillment of a people. And what's going to replace that if we take it away? Do you also think about regulating or slowing down the pace of AI? How do you look at that in Iceland?
[959.60-988.82]  Yeah, I mean, we have talked about this at different levels. I was at a conference with the Nordic Prime Minister as a summer conference in Copenhagen just a few weeks back where we were specifically talking about AI and effects on our children. And we only just recently were on a statement that led by Finland and Norway also on sort of regulating AI. So this is obviously the back of everyone's minds. This has tended to be
[989.33-1011.74]  discuss together with social media access. And specifically, if I just come at this from the Nordic point of view, I mean, we're worried about educational standards. We're worried about pizza. We're worried about how our kids are learning critical thinking in a world where everything is supposed to be done for them. Like, how can you?
[1011.74-1041.55]  How can you learn how to use AI if AI is doing everything for you to begin with, right? Because such a big deal or big part of who we are is just sitting down and thinking problems through. Everyone knows that. That's been through school or education. It's not the solution itself. It's the fact that you drove yourself through that process. And sometimes you don't realize that until afterwards. So I do think we have to regulate AI. And I also think we have to be more critical of how young we
[1041.55-1056.14]  how young kids are when they're exposed to it. And it's the same with social media. We have regulations on social media now. I think we need to start early with AI as well. Yeah, and so when you also think about
[1056.14-1082.46]  the jobs of the future and I think a lot of the premise in climate conversations tends to focus as well on green jobs and how do we rebuild industries and AI is potentially also going to up end all of that. How do you think about the other big civilizational challenge climate and what that also looks like from an international perspective as we know it's more challenging than ever and
[1082.46-1113.74]  Iceland has been one of the more progressive countries in terms of climate leadership and commitment. What's your outlook on what needs to happen? Do you think a lot of pockets of progress are happening at the domestic level and ultimately will bubble up? Or we need to force more of a top-down system to speed up action? Obviously we won't solve this unless we have
[1113.74-1125.57]  the global group that comes together. But I think if we're fair about it, countries are in very different situations to deal with this. And I think that's why we're getting pushback.
[1125.57-1154.86]  It's very easy for a country like Iceland that sits on top of massive geothermal heat and was able to harvest it. We're heating 90% of our homes with us to put ourselves in, you know, on a pedestal that other countries haven't done this, right? If we can be an inspiration, we can share the knowledge and the know-how. Obviously, that's what we're supposed to do. But we're also industrialized, right? And a lot of the sort of developed world has already industrialized and did that through mass.
[1154.86-1167.15]  of fumes and fuel usage and coal. And then you have the developing world that is just struggling to get to that level. And we're putting different standards on their developmental practices than our own. So I get that.
[1167.15-1196.64]  But I think the bigger issue, which is maybe counterintuitive in this situation, is that you have large economies that are at a low developmental level that are pushing green energy, because they see it as a business opportunity, as a job growth opportunity. But then you have rich economies that are pulling back from it, because they feel like globalization and a changing trend has left certain pockets of their country behind. And it becomes a matter of
[1196.64-1225.36]  domestic politics of basically just putting the climate aside. And I think we have to understand the root of that. I feel it even in my own country that if you have people in your community that can't afford simple things, this is not gonna be at the top of their list. And so you have to have solutions from them at another level. You can't basically expect people to, you know,
[1225.36-1250.59]  basically run their homes through climate policy, right? So you have to make this about jobs, you have to make this about growth, exciting opportunities, and Iceland we're doing it through reducing transport costs if you're on a, you know, use electricity, reducing heating costs if you're in a colder geology zone to bring it to them. So you make it a wallet thing for people that, you know, can't...
[1250.59-1276.94]  have their minds at climate policy at every day. And then we just need to be understanding of the fact that countries that are at a different level when it comes to that. But that's not my point that this doesn't matter. It's just we need to have diverse ways of getting people to understand the importance of this. Yeah, and a big part of it is the framing. It is. The solutions exist and we just have to be better.
[1276.94-1302.48]  communicating and for people to relate to those solutions through agency and through opportunity. Yes, and I think in a way, if you're overly or alarmist about it, you tend to get pushed back in a way, but if you create an opportunity ticket to it, it does help. And then countries like Iceland that have been leaders when it comes to sustainable fisheries,
[1302.48-1328.24]  I mean, the ocean is a big part of our background. We have to make sure that we don't have severe disruptions on ocean health. And the same in general with just our climate, if things start disrupting, our way of life is going to be greatly changed. But we need to be able to give back as well. Great. Final question. What is one decision or policy?
[1328.24-1360.13]  that you hope to see this week or over your tenure, that you think will have a significant impact on the world. I think how we introduce technology, AI, social media to our children is going to have a huge impact. I'm really worried about the world that's presented to them through algorithms, through their first touch of media.
[1360.13-1383.12]  also just the negativity associated with social media and news coverage. This is obviously, you know, in some cases you might call this a first world problem, but it is a huge problem. I think we have to be active when it comes to that and, you know, be at the reins and not have big tech decide or take away our children's futures.
[1383.12-1412.74]  You know, at another level, obviously, I'm worried about, and I hope we see a swift change to that again, funding of developmental aid. I think we can see huge disruptions in coming years if we don't see an overturning of developments that we've seen, whether it's USAAD, UNRA, or other places. And then I want to say it a final note, because it's tied to what I'm doing. I'm a big believer that progressive governments, you know, governments, I mean, I'm a social Democrat, I believe, and
[1412.74-1437.68]  and welfare, I believe, in a government in the state. But I don't think that the government should be itself over regulated when it comes to building things and making things work. Because if we get to a place where we've over regulated ourselves, we can't move, someone else will come in more deliberately and break the system that you're trying to bend. So you have to be a step forward when it comes to sort of
[1438.58-1462.61]  making sure that you can actually still build things and make things so someone else doesn't bring it down. So really thinking about longevity and durability of these systems. And I'd be remiss if I didn't mention that Prime Minister, President, leaders of five of the six major parties in Iceland, Bishop are all women. So I think it's no surprise.
[1464.24-1479.54]  of wisdom and thank you for your leadership and your perspective, your candor. Thoroughly enjoyed this conversation, wish you all the success and much more over your tenure. Thank you, likewise. Thank you.
