UNREVIEWED MACHINE TRANSCRIPTION of the English audio/interpretation track. Not an official UN record. Speaker identities are not inferred. Verify against the recording. QUALITY REVIEW REQUIRED: 1 cues have low-confidence or repetitive-text indicators.
https://webtv.un.org/en/asset/k1l/k1loxvi8pw

[54.16-83.65]  Excellencies, distinguished guests, colleagues, and young leaders. At a time when the world is confronting complex and interconnected health challenges, eradicating polio is absolutely possible. Significant progress has already been made over the past several decades, but important challenges remain, raising questions about how to sustain momentum, strengthen health systems, and how do we reach the communities that continue to be the most affected?
[83.65-109.41]  In today's conversation, we'll hear about the lessons learned from the global response to polio and what it means to international cooperation, public health, resilience and equity in healthcare delivery. We are fortunate to be joined by experts and practitioners who bring diverse perspectives and experiences to this discussion. I look forward to hearing their insights on challenges.
[109.41-141.47]  on the opportunities and the priorities that lie ahead. So let me introduce our MC who will guide us through this conversation. UNICEF Polio Director, Stephen Laurye. Stephen, welcome to the Gold Slouch. Thank you, Mary. Thank you, I'm Mary. And distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Welcome to this special UNGA session, UNGA event. One investment
[141.47-180.08]  multiple returns strengthening child health through polio eradication. Over the next 45 minutes, we will hear from a remarkable range of inspiring leaders and advocates. To open our discussion, it's my great honor to introduce his Excellency Ali Haji Adam Abukar, the Minister of Health of the Federal Government of Somalia. Your Excellency. Thank you so much, Excellencies.
[180.08-211.34]  distinguished colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. It is my privilege to address you today on behalf of the federal government of Somalia. Somalia welcomes this timely discussion, which reminds us that polio eradication is not only about ending one disease. It is about strengthening the primary healthcare, advancing child survival, building resilient health systems, and reinforcing
[211.34-241.90]  global health security. The Global Bollywood Education Initiative offers a powerful model for country leadership, international cooperation, and accountability within the evolving global health architecture. Despite a challenging operating environment, marketed by conflict, calamity shocks, and recurrent disease outbreaks, Somalia has made significant progress.
[242.13-270.74]  We remain free of willed Boleophirus and are on the verge of interrupting transmission of circulating vaccine-derived Boleophirus type 2. Protein immunization coverage has risen to approximately 70%. And we have fully integrated the Boleo program into our national immunization program so that Boleo investment is strengthened protein immunization.
[270.74-300.98]  disease, surveillance, and emergence of preparedness alike. This progress reflects the strong political leadership, Somalia immunization, and Bolio eradication task force, chaired by the Prime Minister, has elevated immunization to the highest level of government, strengthening accountability, coordination, and collective action across the federal government. Federal member cities and the development partners.
[301.23-331.89]  Somalia has also shown that integrated surface delivery is a most effective way to reach vulnerable children. Through our far-reaching integrated delivery initiative, we deliver immunization alongside maternal, newborn, and child health, nutrition, and other essential primary health care services to conflict affected remote and hard-to-reach communities. Our experiences treat teachers as
[331.89-360.93]  an important lesson. Zero dose children is often also a child missing other essential health services. To reach every child and improve equity, we must move beyond vertical programmers toward integrated behavioral centered primary health care. Looking ahead, our priority is to further strengthen protein immunization with particular focus on urban, very urban,
[360.93-390.67]  and internally displaced populations, where most zero-dose and under-emorrhizal gyrdyran are formed. And international financing evolves. As international financing evolves, we must safeguard the investment is made through body eradication, the surveillance system is, training workforce, emergency response capacity, laboratories and community networks built through GBEI must become lasting assets.
[390.67-419.28]  for health, security, pandemic, barbarness, and universal health coverage. In closing, Somalia calls for renewed global commitment to finish the job of body eradication, while strengthening child survival and resilient health systems. We government must sustain high-level political leadership, increase domestic investment in region and immunization, and prioritize zero-dose children.
[419.28-447.15]  through integrator service delivery. Regionally, we call for stronger cross-border collaboration across the home of Africa through synchronizing immunization activities, integrator surveillance, timely data sharing, and coordinated outbreak response. Gollabally, we urge the GBEI partnership and the international community to provide predictable, sustainable financing for protected assets built through body eradication.
[447.15-479.22]  and support country-led integrated approaches that strengthen health security and universal health coverage. Together, we can finish the job of body eradication while building stronger, more resilient health system so that every child survives, thrives and reaches their full potential. I thank you. Thank you, Your Excellency, for those powerful remarks. We greatly appreciate your leadership and commitment to pull your eradication.
[479.22-508.43]  and advancing global health. Let's give him another round of applause. Thank you. And I would like now to introduce today's first panel discussion. How can global polio eradication inform the future of global health cooperation? Please join me in welcoming our esteemed panelist to the stage. His Excellency, Dr. Abdell Magit Abderaman, Minister of Public Health of the Republic of Chad.
[508.59-553.82]  Mr. Mike McGovern, Chair of the Portia Oversight Board, Rotary International, Dr. Sanyanishta, Chief Executive Officer of GAVI, the Vaccine Alliance. This special discussion will be moderated by Mike McGovern, Chair of the Portia Oversight Board. Mike, over to you. Thank you very much, Stephen, and good afternoon to everyone. Bon appernity. It's a pleasure to be here today. Our panel members today
[553.82-583.10]  bring very different but complementary perspectives to this conversation. So we're not going to waste any time. We're going right into the panel. Let me start with Dr. Abdul Majid. Your Excellency. Chad sits at the heart of the Lake Chad Basin, where children and families frequently move across borders. What does it take to ensure that every child is protected from polio?
[583.10-617.04]  And how can stronger regional cooperation help us reach those who are still being missed? Your Excellency.
[617.04-651.62]  Thank you very much. It's an honor for me to be here. And first of all, I would like to thank you very much for this occasion, which is very timely. I would like to thank the partners like Gavi, the Gates Foundation. Thank the partners UNICEF, WHO.
[651.62-685.68]  as well. Thank you very much to all the various partners as well as the Dangoti Foundation.
[685.68-717.14]  As far as I'm concerned, I think we are on the right track towards polio eradication. Recently, the world partners and the global players in the polio field appointed his excellency with the President of Chad
[717.14-752.96]  as the champion for the polio eradication, as the champion also in immunization. So this is a great opportunity for us to be involved in this eradication initiative.
[752.96-784.64]  is the option of coordination, transfer from the area of the city. It is the option of the lecture. It is the option of integration, integration, integration, integration, integration, integration, integration, integration, integration, integration, integration, integration, integration, integration, integration, integration, integration, integration, integration, integration.
[784.64-816.24]  Yeah, thank you. So, as I said earlier, you have tasked our
[816.24-845.71]  president with this initiative for eradicating polio. So we have working with the community. So we try to cover, I mean, the committee leaders, like the local governments as well. And we work all around the borders, the area of the lecture basin as well. And we try to reach.
[845.81-874.67]  All the areas, all the corners of this area is legit basing, providing vitamin A supplementation and anything that we can provide to make sure no child is left aside. As we know that there are nomadic population moving along, moving from one piece to another. So we adapt this strategy through all these movements of populations as well.
[875.09-904.78]  So this one-half initiative is very timely and appropriate. As we know that the animal diseases and men diseases are sometimes linked. The nomadic populations usually have cattle.
[904.78-932.75]  As a them, they are more concerned with the health of their animals than themselves. So we really need to work out to implement a dynamic, what new dynamics upon this aspect, one Earth initiative.
[933.97-964.93]  So we are conducting actions in coordination with the countries of the Lakeshade Basin, which are Nigeria, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Niger, including Chad. So we try to conduct, synchronize immunization.
[964.93-992.85]  campaigns as well as from immunization, administering to the children as well. So we also focus on strengthening the cold chain, and I would like to thank the Gavi aliens for that.
[992.85-1022.93]  because it has been very helpful to us in that effect and we were able to reach 86% of the cold chain performance.
[1022.93-1052.74]  We also stress on integrated strategies as a system in place and integrated planning as well. We would like to thank UNICEF and the World Health Organization that have helped us in this disease have been a very important part.
[1052.74-1082.03]  in our fight to eradicate polio.
[1082.32-1113.57]  Thanks to the GED Foundation, we have been also able to intensify the action and the lecture
[1113.57-1140.88]  basin, and these have really been very helpful in conducting meetings, ministerial meetings with those countries involved, the naval countries, Nigeria, Cameroon, Niger as well. So to put in place this platform that we, on a regular basis, we also meet and together plan together and fix it up some strategies.
[1140.88-1174.19]  And finally, Dr. Naelema, civil law enforcement, the law surveillance, a convicted law enforcement, the law surveillance is for absolute development of the anti-communitor. As a chief traditional, the chief religion, the village, the canton, the veritable actor, the enforcement system, or something. As a resident, the communities, the community, the country, the country, the community, the community, the community, the community.
[1174.19-1205.62]  And to conclude, we would like to mention about strengthening the surveillance. We talk about surveillance. We talk about community-led actions, where we involve the local governments, where we want the traditional and religious leaders.
[1205.62-1234.45]  or the district, the village, the chief of villages. We're going to talk about epidemiology, actually the real epidemiologists, the communities, because they are the one who got the information, the diseases, the pathologies, and they are the one who got very information. So we really involve them. So we really also tackle this aspect in threatening the disease surveillance.
[1234.45-1262.86]  fascinating that leadership, wonderful the leadership of Chad in particular in the region. Your leadership, your president's leadership is much appreciated and shows the importance of everyone working together. So thank you. We're now going to move to Dr. Nishtai, nice to see you, Sonia. You represent the wider immunization community here as the CEO of Gavi. You're a core partner in the global polio effort.
[1262.86-1289.78]  while also working with countries to enhance routine immunization. From your perspective, what lessons from the global effort to eradicate polio are most important for the wider immunization community and for strengthening global health? Thank you, Mike, for that question. I think the key lesson is that we should invest in building systems. And when we invest in systems that deliver,
[1289.84-1318.48]  you can deliver anything through them and that's been one of the cardinal learnings for us. I mean the Global Poly Eradication Initiative and Gavi work very closely and these are lessons that we've gained jointly. I mean we work with the same stakeholders, we work through the same systems, we operate primary health care, we confront similar problems because the GBAI focuses on
[1318.48-1347.33]  children that have not been reached, and we label those children as zero dose children in the in the EPI framework. We bear the cost of the operations jointly. As you know, IPVs under the cost of IPV are underwritten by Gabi. The new hexavalent vaccine, you know, which integrates the polio vaccine into the red and butter pentavalent vaccine.
[1347.33-1377.33]  The costs of that are also born by Gabi. And of course, we have shared insights from surveillance operations that we share mutually. And we have consistently had a policy to integrate campaigns. In 2025, we had the largest ever campaigns, measles campaigns in Pakistan, in DRC, in Afghanistan, and Ethiopia.
[1377.49-1407.39]  And all those measles campaigns integrated in high-risk district, integrated the polio vaccine. So we have a lot of interdependency, a lot of integration and a lot of joint operations. And Chris is here and will bear me out. I think the key lesson is to the point of your question. Of course, we talk about country ownership a lot. We talk about political commitment a lot. That has to
[1407.39-1437.81]  cascade into the ability to deliver. And if you have systems that deliver at scale, you can address any problem and any problem, but it's important to build those systems that deliver. Thank you, Dr. Nistra. What we have today is hearing about regional cooperation and the wider immunization community working together. It is truly working together that will accomplish not only end of polio, but also so many other
[1437.81-1465.90]  health goals. The fight against polio has shown us what is possible when governments, communities, health workers, donors, and international organizations, such as Rotary, which I represent, come together around a shared objective. So let's show our appreciation for the minister and for Dr. Nishka for the panel. So thank you very much. Stephen, back to you. Thank you. Thank you, Honorable Benelis.
[1465.90-1494.96]  We now turn to a second conversation. Finishing the job against polio. And this session will bring together global health leaders, civil society, and the voice of young people to reflect on what it will take to deliver a polio-free world. Please join me in welcoming our panel members to the stage. The honourable Randeep Sarai, Secretary of State for International Development.
[1494.96-1537.76]  of Canada, Dr. Chris Elias, the President of Global Development at the Gates Foundation, Ms. Jennifer Jones, Trustee Chair of the Rotary Foundation, and Ms. Alishba Khan Barich, UNICEF Global Youth Health Advocate. This discussion will be moderated by Alishba. Good to see you again.
[1537.76-1566.53]  Dr. Elias, Ms. Jones, and distinguished guests. A very good afternoon to you all. I am really honored, but I must confess a bit nervous to be youngest in the room and to be moderating this panel. But I'm really looking forward to the conversations, and I'm sure that everyone else is, so without further ado, let's dive straight into the discussion. Dr. Elias, my first question would be to you. You've been closely involved in the global effort to eradicate polio for many years.
[1566.53-1595.36]  Why is it still important to finish the job on polio when we have so many urgent, like, competing health issues around the world challenges? And what will it get to, you know, finally get to zero? Thank you, Alisha. And no need to be nervous. As you say, the Global Polli Eradication Initiative really began in 1988 when the World Health Assembly with partners like Rotary International
[1595.36-1623.20]  declared the goal of eradicating polio. In that year, there were over 120 countries with endemic polio, and there were hundreds of thousands of children being paralyzed. Since the setting of that goal, we've made tremendous progress. We've eradicated wild polio from, there were three strains, two of them are gone forever. One's left, and it's only been in two countries, Afghanistan and Pakistan, for the last 10 years.
[1623.20-1646.38]  We have some variant polio viruses as the Minister of Somalia talked about, but we have new tools that are going to address those outbreaks. So we've come so far, 99.98% of the way. But you're right, people often ask the question. In 2025, we had 52 cases of paralyzed children around the world.
[1646.90-1673.26]  And if you could stop there, you could debate, you know that, but we can't stop there because as long as polio is circulating anywhere, it's a threat everywhere. So our modeling shows that if we were to pull back now, we would return to a world where 200,000 children a year were powerless. That's not a world that any of us wants or that any of us could tolerate. And so I think we're so close we have to finish.
[1673.26-1696.66]  The other reason is if you think about what we've built, and I think the honorable minister from both Somalia and Chad talked about this, and Sonia too, in her comments, we have been building an integrated system. If you look at what polio workers do, they don't just go out and eradicate polio. They're very important parts of the integrated disease surveillance system.
[1696.66-1724.05]  They're part of the outbreak response to other diseases like yellow fever and measles and malaria. And right now helping with the response to the Ebola outbreak in DRC. So we have built a system as Sanya was emphasizing and we have deployed that system for many, many important global health needs. And so we need to sustain that system as we finish the job and then transition those assets.
[1724.05-1748.02]  to broader prevention of vaccine-preventable diseases into the broader health workforce that's going to fuel the next set of sustainable development goals. So I think, you know, those are the reasons we need to stay focused. The final phase is tough. The last mile, as we've said, is the longest mile. And some of the places where polio finds itself are in highly fragile contexts.
[1748.02-1774.03]  conflict affected places, poverty affected places. And so we need to come up with new solutions, new approaches to working with humanitarian actors and new tools. Innovation and science are on our side. We have a novel oral polio vaccine that we're using. We have novel methods for detecting the virus so we could respond quickly. So there's a tremendous amount of wind in our sails.
[1774.03-1800.00]  And now is the time to finish the fight. So let me stop there, as I say, stay the course. But let me turn the tables as the youngest person in the room and say, why is this important to you? Why are you such a vocal advocate for children's health, including polio or education? Thank you, Dr. Elias. When you ask this question, it takes me back to when I was eight years old in Cuerta, Western Pakistan. And that was when I first met a polio patient.
[1800.00-1817.81]  Her name was Willale, and, you know, I have a vague memory. I was with my mother, and I saw this girl and her father helped her sit on a wheelchair. And that's the moment, perhaps, when Polia became real to me. I mean, living in Pakistan, Polia was a term that I had heard in news. People would talk about it.
[1817.81-1838.08]  But for the first time, the term had a face. And I could see how it affects the future. And I was a very curious child. I used to ask questions. So I did a bit of digging. And I found out, well, there is a cure. There is vaccine. So, well, if there is a cure, why did Gulale get paralysis? I mean, why do children in Pakistan keep getting paralyzed when there is a cure? And so, you know, it
[1838.08-1867.38]  Now I know that there are many complexities involved, misinformation campaigns. And so that's when my journey with UNICEF started as well. I started writing and that prompted my advocacy journey. And I remember the first opid I wrote for UNICEF. And I was like a bit direct. I don't know how that went through the editorial board. I was like, well, we were able to eradicate smallpox, which showed that vaccines work. So you are wrong. You might as well get your children vaccinated. So that was a bit of a direct demand. And this is
[1867.38-1896.08]  why I believe that young people should be not just invited to these rooms, but this is our future. I mean, not just listen to us and help us form the strategies. We don't want to be peripheral bystanders. We want to be active stakeholders in this. And we are like Gen Z like the coolest people. We know how to convince others. So we should be invited more to these rooms and help influence the decisions that affect our future. Thank you. Thank you.
[1900.94-1917.65]  Now, talking about polio, I'd like to turn to one of the stalwarts of polio eradication from a civil society organization known for its passion for polio eradication. Ms. Jones has long-time rotarian and rotary international's first woman president, so cool.
[1917.65-1946.02]  You have seen this work up close around the world, including in my own country Pakistan. So I would really want to ask you, is there a particular moment that you would perhaps like to share? And also, because I know that you're a gender champion, from what you've seen, why does advancing gender equality matter not only in terms of polio, but in terms of gender health and well-being of children worldwide? Well, first, thank you for the questions. And second,
[1946.02-1975.04]  Let me just say that you're probably the most important voice in the room. And that is, I don't say that lightly because it is your voice, the future voice that is going to drive everything that is what we're talking about today. So thank you. A reflection, I wanted to tell a short story and then just a couple of quick comments. Walking in Pakistan outside Karachi with female health workers was one of the most profound experiences that I've ever had.
[1975.04-2002.34]  I went as president, as a woman, knowing that my male colleagues had not been able to do what I had done, and walking with a television crew to capture the stories of who we were visiting, what we were seeing. The first door that we knocked on, there was an elderly woman that opened the door, and she had the most exquisite eyes, she had deep lines in her face. She invited me into her home, asked...
[2002.34-2031.81]  held my hands and asked if I would share a cup of tea. And we didn't have the time. I knew I couldn't do it, but we had to immunize the children. And her grandchildren were there. Little boys went and sat with them. Her grandson was sitting next to me, and he had a cut on his leg. And he was just covered in flies. And all I could do was just try to swoop the flies away, and they just kept returning. And when I went to leave, we
[2031.81-2060.85]  once again held hands and I exited and I thought about this woman and this elderly woman and realized that we were probably the same age. We had just lived very, very different lives. We went door to door, house to house, more families, more children capturing stories and then it was time for me to get into my air conditioned car and for these women to go on in the most oppressive heat.
[2060.85-2090.82]  for hours and hours and hours and days and weeks and months and years. And I literally sat still for I don't even know how many minutes because I just knew that if I opened my mouth I was going to cry. And the only thing that gave me some comfort in that moment was knowing that those little boys would have a lot of challenges but they would never have polio. And that was a moment that really just
[2090.82-2106.58]  bullied my soul. Walking with those women, seeing what they were able to accomplish is nothing short of remarkable. And I have said many, many times, I believe, and I think we all believe, the larger legacy of eradicating polio and do not
[2106.58-2122.62]  hesitate to think it will get done is the public health infrastructure that we've all been talking about here today and the importance of frontline female health workers, community health workers in building systems across nations and we're seeing that right now.
[2122.62-2151.25]  scaling beyond polio into other parts of our world. And every single meeting I've been here at this week has involved that thread. And it's the trust. It's the mum to mum being able to go in and not only talk about polio, proper nutrition, routine immunizations, everything else that they require to be successful. And so I'll conclude there but take one little moment of maybe stage privilege to just acknowledge
[2151.25-2184.45]  and thank as a Canadian our Secretary of State for the Canadian government's incredible support of our rotary polio or of our GPI polio initiative and the incredible support that our country has provided for that. So thank you very much for that support. That's so beautifully put and I can relate to because have female healthcare workers make like a big Irish and Pakistan frontline workers as well. Thank you Miss Jones.
[2184.45-2211.34]  coming to Secretary Sarah, you're not going to get easy questions given your background. So speaking of gender equality, our final speaker on the panel represents a country that has long championed gender equality and is one of the most committed supporters of a polio-free world. We all know that global health budgets are under a lot of pressure right now. Why do you think it's still important to keep investing in polio or education?
[2211.34-2240.69]  Well look, so first thank you for this panel and thank you to Rotary and the Gates Foundation and Gavi and everyone for doing this work. I was a young boy in 89 when this polio campaign at the Rotary started and my father's best friend championed this in his Rotary Club started raising funds. I helped my dad and I think they raised $50,000 back in 89 and I...
[2240.69-2247.54]  was an optimist, a dreamer. I thought, wow, you can eradicate the disease. But in the back of your head, you're like...
[2247.54-2276.82]  really can you really eliminate a disease and now fast track 40 years later being in this position and you see it's almost 99% eradicated it's it's pretty impressive what human capital dedicated volunteers dedicated health workers can do reach out globally to do this but it also reminds us that you have to be vigilant you have to continue to do it it's not a one-time thing and it's eradicated we've seen measles pop back up because of people's phobias on vaccines
[2276.82-2306.03]  in Canada, so I just wanted to say that on the outset, so really commend the work that the global community in the health sector has done, and Canada has been always committed to doing that. I think when it comes to gender look, Jenny just said it, she was able to go to places where otherwise men would not have been able to do. Your generation is going to be the champions that are able to tell women, beat out the phobias, the misconceptions, the misinformation that is prevalent out there.
[2306.03-2309.01]  reach people that otherwise are not reachable.
[2309.01-2338.29]  to eradicate this. And once they see that their neighborhoods, their villages don't have polio anymore, others will hear and others will see it. And then it gets passed on generation to generation from mother to daughter to granddaughter. So I think it's very effective. We've seen it in Canada, I think as gender-based analysis and anything, including healthcare, that if you look at through that lens, you can reach a lot more people.
[2338.29-2371.04]  you can be much more effective. And in this case, you are making a healthier environment for 51% of the population. So it works. Yeah. Thank you so much, Secretary Sarah. I have so many questions, but we're over time. So we're going to end this panel. Thank you, panelists. Thank you, distinguished guests. Thank you so much. Thank you for this wonderful conversation. It's my great pleasure.
[2371.04-2399.98]  to introduce his excellency, Dr. Shama Almas-Ruey, excuse me, Acting Director-General of the Mohammed bin Zayed Foundation for Humanity. Under Dr. Shama's leadership, the MBZ Foundation continues to be a committed supporter to polio eradication. Please join me in welcoming Dr. Shama Almas-Ruey.
[2406.29-2441.04]  Thank you. I think I'm going to do this speech. Your excellencies, colleagues, and friends, first of all, good afternoon. I'm honored to join over here today, and we have Mohammed and Zai's Foundation for Humanity. Thank you for the chance to speak alongside partners who have been worked for decades on that cause. And it's really inspiring to hear young leaders like Alishwah today. I think our work in a very soft hand in the future. Pollu eradication has shown us what a sustained global cooperation can achieve since
[2441.04-2469.71]  GPI started more than 3 billion children have been vaccinated. Two strains have been eradicated, and more than 20 million cases of paralysis has been prevented. Just last month, five African countries were able to close an Apollo outbreak. And this is a very strong proof, what a strong leadership plus a very strong surveillance system, an early intervention can deliver, which is the hallmark of these programs. Under the leadership of our president,
[2469.71-2498.99]  has been a long committed partner in this journey. But these outbreaks remind us what that we cannot afford to falter. If we fall short of eradication, the consequence is not only that we are missing a target, it's the risk of poor due resurgence across borders communities and childhood. Our shared work in Afghanistan brings the sentiment to a very sharp focus. Cases today are rising.
[2499.12-2530.06]  32 cases today compared to 21 last year. Community refusal is still one of the strongest barriers that we are facing and one that we haven't ever able to overcome yet. Our colleagues in Afghanistan heard directly from families. While the support only arrived for certain disease, while so many other health needs are still ammet, this question will become even harder to answer because basic services still declining in Afghanistan.
[2530.61-2558.42]  and we cannot ask communities to accept disease-specific interventions while there is other reasons still unmet. We also know, as mentioned by Dr. Kress, that the success in eradication depends on country leadership. We cannot own eradications on country we have. Finding a way forward requires us all to come to a table openly, listen, and to work across divides. The same principles apply to community also.
[2558.42-2576.88]  One experience in Pakistan and Afghanistan that has shown us what works in certain neighborhoods will not work on the other one. And we must have the courage to find new models of working while existing approaches fall short and the next two years will be very critical for us. As a donors, we have also responsibility to act.
[2577.07-2602.69]  If we ask programs to change, we must give them the space to do so. This means supporting local teams to assist different delivery models and approach and to change across when something isn't working. It means tolerating risk, early failure, and service of getting this right. Friends, we have come so far together and achieving and I think the goal of four or three world stand remains within reach.
[2602.69-2634.90]  and achieving it requires sustained commitment to what is really working right now and they will together to change what does not. And we have the UAE, we remain committed to both. Thank you so much. Thank you, Your Excellency, for this compelling words and for your continued commitment to ending podium protecting children everywhere. Before we end these events, may I invite all the speakers to kindly join us on the stage for the usual family photo. Thank you.
