UNREVIEWED MACHINE TRANSCRIPTION of the English audio/interpretation track. Not an official UN record. Speaker identities are not inferred. Verify against the recording.
https://webtv.un.org/en/asset/k18/k18rj2s74f

[2.51-31.02]  Hello, everybody. Can you hear me? Thank you. Well, Excellencies, distinguished guests, colleagues and friends. Good afternoon and welcome to this high-level dialogue on reinvigorating feminist multilateralism, convened during this 81st session of the United Nations General Assembly. My name is Jennifer Feller. I'm the Deputy Permanent Representative of Mexico to the United Nations. And it is my honor to moderate today's dialogue.
[31.02-58.50]  At a time when the multilateral system is under profound strain, this gathering asks how women's full and equal leadership can help make the system more representative, accountable, responsive and effective. Our purpose today is to move from principle to practice and from dialogue to concrete follow-up beyond this high-level week. To welcome us and frame the discussion, it is my pleasure to invite Ms. Sima Bahus.
[58.50-92.98]  United Nations Under Secretary-General and Executive Director of UN Women to take the floor. Please, Seem. Thank you. Thank you, Mrs. Wahooz, for setting up and hosting us. Thank you very much. Excellency. And let me say that I am very happy to be here and good to see this crowd joining us for this very important event. You know, in my country, we say...
[93.04-122.27]  The last meeting is the best meeting. This is the last meeting of the week. At least for me, this is the last meeting of this UNGA. So it's wonderful to be here. And it's wonderful to be among all of you activists, feminists, everyone who is in this room. So, excellencies, distinguished guests, colleagues and friends.
[122.27-152.26]  Again, I must say it is my great pleasure to welcome all of you to this high-level dialogue on reinvigorating feminist multilateralism. I extend my thanks to our hosts, his Excellency Roberto Velasco Alvarez, Secretary of Foreign Affairs of Mexico, her Excellency Laura Rizanen, State Secretary to the Ministry of Social Affairs of Finland, her Excellency Liberata Mulalala,
[152.26-179.22]  mula mula mula mula sorry about that okay let's repeat her excellency liberata mula mula mula I told you it's the last meeting of the week so excuse any faltering
[180.05-210.99]  Special Envoy on Women, Peace and Security to the African Union, my dear friend, Hibak Osman, Founder and CEO of Karama, and to all our civil society partners, FEMNET, the Feminist Foreign Policy Collaborative, Arrow and WEDO and everyone else in this room. Welcome. Excellency is colleagues friends. As we meet on this final day of UNGA High Level Week, we share a deep belief.
[210.99-239.33]  in multilateralism and in the vision of the world set out in the United Nations Charter. Today, that vision can feel further away than at any time in recent memory. Our multilateral system is under immense strain from dealing with escalating violence, winding social and economic divides, deepening gender disparities,
[239.33-268.46]  and a climate crisis. And yet, it is precisely because of these pressures that we must come together to strengthen multilateralism, not retreat from it, and to ensure it delivers for women and girls everywhere. The United Nations Charter, which was signed in 1945, rests on a simple but enduring truce that our greatest challenges cannot
[268.46-299.07]  be solved by nations acting alone, that our security, prosperity and dignity are bound together. This week, from the podium of the General Assembly to the corridors of this building, we have heard strong support for that idea and for renewed multilateralism. But as you all know, words alone will not be enough. For multilateralism to meet the demands of our time,
[299.07-327.84]  It must evolve. It must share power. It must place women's leadership and gender equality at its core. It must broaden the voices and issues shaping our common agenda. And it must draw strength from the meaningful participation of civil society. These are the principles of feminist multilateralism. Excellencies, dear colleagues, feminists and friends.
[327.84-352.38]  Women's organizations and feminist movements have long called on us to walk the talk, to show what feminist multilateralism can mean in practice, to share rather than concentrate power, to make leadership more inclusive and accountable and to build lasting peace through justice, equality, rights and solidarity.
[352.38-381.95]  This requires us to rethink the very concepts at the heart of multilateralism. Security must not be measured by military strength or geopolitical influence, nor can peace simply mean the absence of war. Their true measure must be found in people's lives, in whether women and girls, half of humanity, can live free from violence, whether their rights are protected.
[381.95-411.12]  whether communities are resilient and whether people have a meaningful voice in decisions that shape their lives. This vision connects the promises of the UN Charter with CDOW, the Beijing declaration and platform for action, the Women, Peace and Security Agenda and the 2030 Agenda. This vision calls for institutions that better reflect the diversity and leadership of the people they serve.
[411.60-435.57]  As the United Nations looks to its future, the call for a woman secretary general has never been clearer. And we make it here today. After 80 years, the prospect of Madame Secretary General would be of profound significance and a powerful step forward towards the feminist multilateralism that we are calling for today.
[445.20-473.15]  Dear excellencies, there are three ways in which all of us here can put feminist multilateralism into practice. First, by making women's leadership central to decision-making on peace, security, development, and global governance, including discussions on the opportunities and risks presented by digital technologies. Second, by protecting civic space and ensuring the full
[473.15-495.81]  equal and safe participation of civil society in shaping our shared global agenda. Third, by sustainably funding women led and feminist organizations, the movements that turn the global commitments we make in these multilateral spaces, they turn them into change in communities around the world.
[495.81-525.31]  and force by shifting resources from military spending to investments that sustain peace, development, and gender equality. Friends, let us turn to the words with which the UN Charter begins. We the peoples. That is where the legitimacy of multilateralism begins and where its future must be rooted in people, participation,
[525.31-557.33]  and shared power between everyone, including between women and men. This is the promise of the feminist multilateralism and the work before us today. As I close, I would like us to take a moment to recognize this empty chair that is amongst us here on my right, a stark symbol of the silencing and erasure of Afghan women from public life.
[557.33-595.18]  and a powerful reminder of our responsibility, all of us, to ensure that their voices are heard, their rights are defended, and their leadership neither excluded nor forgotten. Thank you very much, dear Under Secretary General, for this very powerful speech. It is now my honor to invite my boss, his Excellency Roberta Velasco Alvarez, Secretary of Foreign Affairs of Mexico to deliver opening remarks. Thank you very much, Mr.
[596.27-621.26]  Thank you very much, Jennifer. And good afternoon and welcome to everyone. It is a pleasure to be here, building alliances among countries, UN agencies and NGOs to advance the feminist agenda in the multilateral sphere. For Mexico, it is a pleasure to co-sponsor this initiative. Under the leadership of our first female president,
[621.26-648.69]  Substantive gender equality has become a national priority, translated into concrete action. Gender parity, guaranteed by our constitution, is now a reality in Congress, the federal cabinet and the judiciary. A national care system currently under development that reflects the realities of women in all their diversity. And a nationwide reform to strengthen the prevention, investigation and punishment of femicide.
[648.69-677.84]  while ensuring reparations for victims. For us, feminist multilateralism means placing substantive equality at the center of international rules and decisions, while ensuring that women participate fully and equally in shaping them. Mexico puts this vision into practice through its feminist foreign policy, which incorporates gender equality and intersectionality across diplomacy, multilateral and bilateral engagement, cooperation, consular protection, and their own institutions.
[677.84-702.69]  This approach has delivered visible progress. In 2025, together with EPLAC, Mexico convened a 16 regional conference on women in Latin America and the Caribbean that secured broad support for the Latelolco agreement, which calls for a decade of action to achieve substantive gender equality and the care society. Moreover, in 2024, Mexico hosted the third ministerial conference on feminist foreign policy.
[702.69-727.01]  the first of its kind in the Global South and the first directly linked to a multilateral process, the summit of the future with a declaration backed by 19 countries. This June, we joined the fifth conference in Madrid where 700 participants and 27 countries endorsed a new ministerial declaration. For Mexico, feminist multilateralism also means feminist economic diplomacy.
[727.01-752.19]  Our modernized global agreement with the European Union, signed this May, incorporates for the first time a joint declaration on trade and gender equality. And we have signed a memorandum of understanding on feminist foreign policy with Spain, Chile, Colombia, and France. To conclude, we believe this perspective must be reflected in the leadership of our international system. Let me go to SEMA's words.
[752.19-786.21]  The time has come for a woman to become the next Secretary General of the United Nations. We stand ready to work shoulder to shoulder with member states, UN agencies, civil society, and feminist movements to prevent any regression on women's rights. We are prepared to move forward toward a more just and humane international system. When she took office, President Chaimam said,
[786.21-814.98]  all arrive together. Let it be our commitment to the world as well. Thank you. Thank you very much, Secretary Velasco. I now invite our Excellency, Laura Risenen, State Secretary to the Minister of Social Security, Ministry of Social Affairs, and Health of Finland. Thank you very much. Thank you, and dear friends, colleagues, feminists.
[814.98-841.22]  Finland is honored to be co-sponsoring this event, and we are excited to be part of this very important dialogue. Our president said in the GA Hall on Tuesday that whoever the next general, Secretary-General, baby, her mission will be. So I think we are standing on that as well. For Finland, a stronger rules-based multilateral system remains essential.
[841.22-870.16]  We are convinced that lasting peace, sustainable development and human security can only be achieved through international cooperation grounded in international law, the UN Charter and Universal Human Rights. And a center element of our vision is gender equality. Finland has long championed the rights, participation and leadership of women and girls as a core priority of our foreign policy and of our international engagement and we will continue to do that.
[870.16-899.92]  Experience consistently shows that societies are stronger, institutions more resilient, and outcomes more sustainable when women participate fully and equally in political processes, these building efforts and decision making at all levels. Women's meaningful participation does not, does more than broaden representation. It shapes how challenges are understood and addressed. It influences what is prioritized,
[899.92-919.47]  whose perspectives are heard and how security itself is defined. As a result, issues such as land rights, education, health care, and community reconciliation become integral to discussions that might otherwise focus narrowly on ceasefire's military arrangements or troop withdrawals.
[919.50-939.81]  This approach has also reflected in Finland's strong commitment to women, peace and security agenda and the UN Security Council Resolution 1325, which recognizes women's participation as essential to sustainable peace and security. In Finland, women play an active role in peace mediation.
[939.81-963.79]  A key strength is the strong network of women, peace mediators and experts, which brings together women from different backgrounds and supports their participation in peace processes. These networks help connect expertise, build capacity and create opportunities for women to contribute to mediation and peace building, both in Finland and internationally. Dear friends.
[963.79-981.52]  Today's dialogue provides an opportunity to move from principles to action, as Simon already said. It invites us to consider what feminist multilateralism means in practice and how we can build institutions that are more representative, responsive and accountable.
[981.52-994.45]  It also challenges us to identify concrete steps that governments, international organizations and civil society can take together to advance women's leaderships and rights in global decision making.
[994.74-1019.04]  Finland welcomes the launch of this broader initiative and the commitment to sustain cooperation beyond this event. Strengthening the multilateralism is not the responsibility of any single actor. It requires partnership, political will, and meaningful participation of those voices that too often have been excluded. So let us build this dialogue together.
[1019.04-1051.36]  for common understanding, generate practical commitments, and reaffirm that inclusive leadership, meaning everyone, is essential for a more peaceful, just, and effective international system. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. And now it is my pleasure to give the floor to my friend and also inspiration. He back, husband, founder, and chief executive officer of Karama.
[1051.36-1071.66]  Thank you very much. With member states, I might be one of them one day. Excellencies, colleagues, and dear friends, if multilateralism is oxygen, it must reach the people. It cannot remain trapped in conference rooms and diplomatic declarations.
[1071.66-1087.30]  Today, we acknowledge and celebrate what multilateralism has made possible. It has provided women with an international language of rights, common standards, the woman peace and security agenda, and pathways to justice where national systems have failed us.
[1087.30-1105.94]  But this relationship has never been one-sided. Women and feminist movements have always believed, supported, defended multilateralism. We carried its commitments into our communities, expanded the understanding of rights, held its institutions accountable and kept faith in collective action alive.
[1105.94-1135.23]  even when governments retreated from it. But our purpose is not preservation. Our purpose is renewal. Renewal is not a technical reform exercise. It's a new political compact between states, multilateral institutions, feminist movements, and the people they exist to serve. I want to make four political points outlined in our policy paper published with asterism initiative. Number one, multilateral institutions must become people's institutions.
[1135.23-1156.29]  They cannot remain places where governments speak to governments while people wait outside. People will defend these institutions when they can see themselves represented, exercise real influence and experience their impact. Two, women must be the architects of this renewal, not its bystanders. Women cannot be invited at the end.
[1156.29-1185.86]  to influence decisions already made. We must be there from the beginning, setting priorities, shaving policies, and decided how resources are allocated. Women's movements are not beneficiaries. We are political actors. We do not want only a seat at the table. We must design, help design the table and set its agenda. Three, young people must shape the system. They will inherit. They cannot be asked to speak about the future while being excluded from the decisions, shaving their lives.
[1185.86-1211.95]  Today. Participation without influence is not inclusion. Consultation without accountability is not transformation. For feminist multilateralism is a preventive political strategy. Anti-woman, anti-rights, anti-democratic forces are organized, financed, coordinated across borders. We cannot confront a global backlash through isolated national struggles.
[1211.95-1239.04]  Feminist multilateralism allows us to act before rights are dismantled, before authoritarianism is normalized, and before exclusion becomes conflict. Karama will bring its political vision, movement building, experience, and feminist networks to this initiative. We will ensure that women's movements shave it from its foundation, not as an afterthought. Our message is clear. We are not asking women to save yesterday's institutions.
[1239.04-1260.21]  we are calling on women to become the architects of renewed institutions, grounded in feminist principles and owned by the people. This is not simply about defending a system, it's about renewing it, redistributing power and building institutions that people trust, recognize as their own and are willing to defend.
[1260.21-1288.80]  this renewal of multilateralism only works in true partnership, and that partnership is clear in our partners on the discussion today. As we discuss this issue today at UNGA, I want to recognize my sister, Dr. Sima Bahuz, for her political courage in shaving and championing this vision, and for bringing civil society, academics, government, and the United Nations together around our shared commitment to renew
[1288.80-1319.76]  to renew multilateralism. I want to thank the government of Mexico for its partnership. And the foreign minister, his excellency Roberto Ferez. Okay, Lorenzo. Everybody butchers my name, so. For a minute, yes. Ambassador Jennifer Feller for her extraordinary diplomatic leadership and steady fast support. She has work.
[1319.76-1349.71]  tirelessly with us day and night giving this conversation its political weight and ambition. I want to thank the government of Finland and Laura Roussain. What's wrong with my accent today? And they stay secretary to the Ministry of Social Security of Finland for joining us today. Their participation today is a clear sign of their government's commitment to feminist multilateralism. Nepal and all the other states and European Union.
[1349.71-1378.90]  that are all present and last, but certainly not least, my sister, Ambassador. Lebrata Mula Mula. The African Union, Ambassador for Peace and Security. For changing her plans to join us today, your presence means a lot to us. Thank you. My appreciation goes to the UN Women Team, Rachel.
[1378.90-1408.58]  Sarah and Mohammed in the executive director's office. Puffy, Harriet, and Jihan in Women, Peace and Security, loved by Sean and Pivot in the Civil Society Division, and Paloma, and her communications team. I warmly thank our civil society friends and speakers, Carol from FilmNet, Bridget from Widoo, Spock May, Ahmed from the Feminist Forum Policy, and Angeline from Arrow.
[1408.58-1440.03]  I also thank my colleagues Phil Evans and Sarah Taylor for their tireless work and John Sandler for her invaluable wisdom and guidance. And to everyone in this room, thank you very much for choosing to be with us today. Your presence gives a strength to this conversation. Thank you. I was supposed to thank everybody after the remarks of you back, but I think that you did the job already.
[1440.03-1475.18]  So before passing, going to the panel discussion, I would just like to take a minute to allow my minister to leave the room. Unfortunately, he has a mission that has scheduled around 25 bilaterals for him. So he has to leave. Thank you very much for being with us, Mr. Secretary.
[1485.26-1506.22]  So I welcome as well Ambassador Hector Vasconcelos, the Permanent Representative of Mexico to the United Nations. Thank you very much Ambassador for being with us. On the contrary, let me tell you it is an honor for me to be here. In this session which is about a course I really believe in.
[1509.90-1536.91]  So we move then to the moderated panel. We will begin with brief opening reflections from five panelists followed by an interactive dialogue with participants in the room. This is intended, as we always say, as an exchange rather than a conventional Q and A session. I therefore invite everyone to listen for points of connection, respond to one another, and identify
[1536.91-1558.35]  practical areas for collective action. Each panelist will have three minutes. I'm known to be an authoritarian, so just to let you know for an opening reflection. And I will offer a gentle reminder as time, I don't know if it's going to be gentle, but I'm going to offer a reminder as time draws to a close so that we can hear from everyone.
[1558.35-1580.10]  We are very happy to be joined by her excellency, Heather Samsung, Ambassador and Deputy Head of the EU delegation to the UN in New York, and long-standing friendship unites us. We were together in the third committee 20 years ago, defending, well, I don't want to see 20 years ago. It was yesterday. We were defending...
[1580.10-1608.37]  Women's rights, gender, equality since then. So we've come a long way. Ms. Thais, Amorim Cardoso, first secretary from the Permanent and Mission of Brazil to the United Nations. Ms. Bridgette Burns, executive director from Guido. Thank you very much for being here. And Ms. Angelicianoy, program leads from Arro. Thank you. And Ms. Spockmay Hackmith, deputy director from the Feminist Foreign Policy Collaborative. Thank you all for being with us.
[1608.37-1634.70]  So to get us started, I invite each panelist to respond to overarching questions. So for Heather and Taiz, the question would be, what would it take to build a more feminist, multilateral system that is genuinely inclusive, accountable, and responsive to the realities and leadership of women and girls in all their diversity?
[1634.70-1660.59]  And for the rest of the panelists, the question would be, what are the most critical shifts in power, practice, and partnership needed to reinvigorate feminist multilateralism and ensure that global decision-making delivers for women and girls in all their diversity? Please, Heather, I invite you to bring your reflection. To present your reflection, sorry.
[1660.59-1683.89]  Thank you. Thank you, dear Jennifer. Thank you, dear, dear co-organizers for bringing us together. And I think it's testimony to the importance of the subject to see so many people in this room at this late hour at the end of high-level week. I should also think my dear colleague, Magdi, who really, of course, put her thoughts and brains into this. And I'm happy to share some thoughts. And I hope you will knock up me off.
[1683.89-1705.33]  As a starting point, I think it's important to really understand that gender equality, social resilience, and multilateralism are really interlinked and defined by the same principles, freedom, opportunity, and responsibility. Freedom to create a life that one desires, opportunity to contribute to society.
[1705.33-1729.36]  and responsibility for our own actions and also towards others. When women and girls reach their full potential, the possibilities for entire societies expand. And when they are discriminated, intimidated or controlled, societies have to limp on one leg and cannot go far either. Therefore, gender equality is not only a human rights issue, but it's also an issue of social resilience and success.
[1729.58-1753.46]  Strengthening multilateralism and advancing women's rights and leadership are not separate goals. They are one and the same. Multilateralism needs women and women need multilateralism. On the one hand, if multilateralism is to remain credible, it must renew itself, becoming more representative, more accountable and more responsive to the people it needs to serve. And it starts with women.
[1753.46-1781.57]  Women leadership is indispensable to rebuilding trust in multilateralism. And we cannot build more legitimate, effective and inclusive governance, while half of the world remains underrepresented in politics, peace, processes, diplomacy and decision-making. But the good news is that across regions, there is strong demand for support to women's leadership. Women leaders, women rights organizations and young women are building alliances, mentoring one another, and
[1781.57-1802.90]  opening new path for participation, really supporting one another. But structural barriers remain profound. Discriminatory social norms, violence against women in politics, online abuse, gender disinformation and persistent funding gaps. So we need to create the conditions for women to lead safely, fully and with real influence alongside men.
[1802.99-1829.42]  And this includes preventing and responding to gender-based violence, including violence facilitated by technology, committed against women in the public sphere or at home. Women's leadership must also be supported through feminist movements and grassroots organizations who amplify the voices of women who are too often underrepresented in political and global governance spaces and make inclusive leadership possible.
[1829.78-1857.81]  Supporting women human rights defenders and peace builders against abuse, intimidation and repression is another way to ensure that the multilateral system holds each of us accountable to our shared principles and commitments. On the other hand, women also need multilateralism. The multilateral system with the UN and its core is the key guarantee that the decisions that are made are based on global norms, our inclusive and benefit women and girls.
[1857.97-1885.97]  For example, on the leadership level, UN-led peace agreements have a track record of including women and being sustainable. And the peace as an SPS processes and mediation efforts are shifting from the multilateral space to regional actors or bilateral avenues we see clear data about the dramatic decrease or full absence of women from the table, as well as the exclusion of gender perspective from the agreements made.
[1885.97-1907.63]  And this is proven to be detrimental to both gender equality and the sustainability of those agreements that are made. Also on the ground, UN entities delivering as one create the policy space, evidence base and multi-stakeholder approach that guarantees that the programs implemented are comprehensive, rights-based and inclusive on the long run.
[1908.40-1930.30]  The weakening or absence of multilateral implementation frameworks create a fragmented system that is known to leave women and girls behind as well as the most vulnerable. Now the EU remains a reliable partner in advancing multilateralism and in upholding human rights, gender equality and women's participation and leadership in all their diversity.
[1930.30-1959.63]  And for us, human rights and gender equality are not negotiable. They are the foundation of social resilience, prosperity and lasting peace. And we aim to lead by example, gender equality is the backbone of the EU key and political priorities. And you may have seen them this week at the high-level week. Four of the EU's five main institutions are currently headed by women. The President of the European Commission, the European Parliament, the External Action Service,
[1959.63-1990.11]  and the European Central Bank, all women all here this week. At the same time, advancing gender equality cannot be left to women leaders alone. Men in leadership positions, rep up, have an equally important responsibility. And this is why we invest in gender responsive leadership, training for both senior and middle management across the EU. Of course, we have several initiatives that support these aims. I will not go into them.
[1990.11-2027.78]  But I just want to really reaffirm that for the EU, gender equality is important, feminist multilateralism is important. We will continue to place equality at the core of our internal work within the EU, but also in our external action. And we'd like to partner with everybody around the world who can help us uphold these principles. And thank you for allowing us to share. Thank you.
[2027.78-2057.86]  Thank you, Ambassador. Director, Excellencies, distinguished colleagues and friends, I feel honored to be here among such inspiring women and among also men who are partners to the cause on this one last event on a Friday afternoon. I would like to thank the organizers, Mexico, Finland, UN Women, and Karama for conveying this timely discussion at a moment when both mutualateralism and women's rights are facing undeniable backlash.
[2057.86-2087.52]  Mutilateralism is, in many ways, a reflection of democracy at the international level. Just as the voices of only a few countries cannot constitute a truly effective and legitimate multilateral system, the voices of only part of society cannot constitute real democracy. As we strive for a more representative, inclusive and legitimate mutilateralism, women's equal participation cannot remain an aspiration, it must become a reality. A couple of days ago,
[2087.52-2113.52]  I had the opportunity to discuss diversity and inclusion policies with Tarsiana Medeiros, who is the president and CEO of Banco Dubrazio, the first woman to lead the institution in over 200 years. And our discussion highlighted the importance of women's representation, but also of ensuring the representation that this representation translates into leadership and decision-making power.
[2113.55-2138.75]  This is why achieving gender equality requires us to go beyond representation and numerical priority. It requires full participation, equal leadership, meaningful influence and accountability. Member States must ensure women's equal representation in delegations, negotiating teams, international bodies, programs such as mentorships and sponsorships could also be strengthened and implemented, which brings
[2138.75-2165.36]  to my mind initiatives such as the UN system wide strategy on gender parity, the gender equality acceleration plan, which have produced important results including through initiatives such as the senior women talent pipeline. But let's not forget the representation must go hand in hand with opportunities to lead. And hopefully this leadership can translate into more gender equality policies being promoted by those women in power.
[2165.36-2192.67]  We must also confront one of the deepest challenges women face, the persistence of systemic and structural barriers. Gender representation cannot depend exclusively on an individual's ability to overcome those barriers. Member States have the responsibility to establish and sustain policies, to turn commitments into institutional practice, ensuring women are able to shape what is discussed, and ultimately what decisions are taken.
[2192.67-2217.68]  As for the long overdue reform of global governance, there's also entails implementing gender parity at the highest levels of the United Nations. As many have already pointed out today, this year should hopefully mark a historic milestone. The appointment of the first woman secretary general, as Brazil has been strongly advocating with Mexico. Excellencies, distinguished colleague.
[2222.13-2253.66]  Excellencies and distinguished colleagues, women's participation in multilateral decision making is not simply a matter of fairness. It is fundamental to the legitimacy, inclusiveness, and effectiveness of the decisions we make. I thank you. Thank you very much. And I would like to underline that for Mexico, the partnership that we have both with the EU and Brazil is very important and fundamental. And we hope that we are going to continue working very closely together.
[2253.66-2273.90]  subject. Thank you. Please, we do. Thank you. Thank you so much. I too just want to echo that I do not arrive to this room alone as a sentiment not only in looking out at this room and seeing the faces of so many individuals who I think have held up.
[2273.90-2298.99]  multilateralism as a whole and infused an understanding of feminist multilateralism, but of the decades of work and the so many hundreds of thousands of feminists and women who have come before, who have created this institution, and who have tried to find the cracks in this, what we know is always an unjust institution to make it work for us in ways that would actually see us building a more just society.
[2298.99-2321.66]  from an organization that really finds the space of a part of our theory of change is organizing in multilateralism. We ask ourselves on a yearly, if not quarterly basis, whether we can still engage in this space, whether there is still change possible through multilateral cooperation. And the mantra we have yet to...
[2321.66-2342.83]  drive away from is that we refuse to seed multilateralism to power politics. We're not going to mistake the circus for transformation, but we will continue to engage to seed solidarity, justice, and care. And I think that's the possibility and the promise of a feminist multilateralism.
[2342.83-2367.01]  The heart of this for us is a well-connected, organized women's rights, feminists and grassroots women's organization architecture who serve as the connective tissue to bring local and national level struggles into both regional and global policy processes. To really ensure we're not simply transferring injustice and inequality across people and places but actually seeking just solutions.
[2367.01-2395.34]  And if I'm honest, I feel quite strongly that it's one of the only things that makes multilateralism worth its salt, the norms and the mandates that we fight for and win in this space are meaningful when given meaning through well-connected, organized, and funded grassroots feminist organizations and community groups. So I'll share a recent example. I know so many of our colleagues have said so many of the principles that we need to look for in what a feminist multilateralism is.
[2395.34-2424.62]  A recent example of how advocates have used negotiations on a gender action plan under the UNFCCC to mount a resistance among countries to the rollback on agreed language around gender equality. And we saw over 90 countries at the start of the negotiations at COP last year declaring a red line in a joint statement that they would not accept any rollback on agreed language. A letter, of course, that was months in the making due to work and the drive of a handful of both amazing
[2424.62-2456.56]  and government representatives, but also deep relationships to women's rights community organizations who had sounded a strong alarm and who have been sounding an alarm. And the solidarity of those countries and the tactics to raise this is a priority at the highest levels of decision-making in the process helped a nine-year action plan not only pass in one of the most hostile anti-gender environments, but pass without any rollback or concessions on agreed gender language. And it was a win.
[2456.56-2483.12]  The type of collective organizing that's often been hard to realize in multilateral spaces, and feminists are working hand in hand with willing governments and the UN to implement the gender action plan, to use it as an organizing tool to create implementation guidance that no document mandated, but that we know is needed, and to mobilize people from national organizations to local communities to understand and utilize this tool for action. And we're doing that to build trust.
[2483.12-2508.86]  and alliance and as that is also an example of something positive we know that feminist multilateralism must be systemic and it would demand not just an action plan but the flows of climate finance and a full transition away from fossil fuels and so if the gender action plan is a recipe without any of tools it won't be as impactful as we need it to be and on this we are also considering other opportunities where
[2508.86-2538.16]  countries have come together, coalitions of the willing to carry commitments to a transition away from fossil fuel into an alternative process outside of the UNFCCC. And so we see that as an opportunity to learn from, to engage, and bring feminist architecture into the coalition of countries who are coming together to demand a transition away from fossil fuels, and to see that as a site of transformation. Because, of course, building a feminist
[2538.16-2557.23]  lateralism is not just standing and calling for countries to stand on agreed language, but to truly transform the systems that allow for human rights to thrive on this beautiful planet. Thank you. Thank you very much, Bridget, please, and Lee.
[2562.38-2588.54]  Men's and institutions working together. In 1975, women's organizations gathered in Mexico City alongside the First World Conference on Women. In Cairo in 1994, feminist movements, many of whom were from the Global South, worked with allied governments to put women's rights and choices at the center of population policy. In Beijing, activists and delegates together shaped a platform for action that still guides us even today.
[2588.54-2616.70]  And without us looking very far, UN women itself came from civil society campaigns, taken up by champions inside the system. So feminist multilateralism for us is one of our greatest inheritance, one we have nurtured with immense pride, and it is our job now more than ever to protect it, although while we continue to hold it accountable to its highest standards of justice and care. The three critical shifts that we see as important are
[2616.70-2644.90]  The first is the shift in power from where decisions are made to where they are lived. Reform is decided in this building, but its consequences land more strikingly on a young girl in Manila, a women's organization in Suva, a clinic in rural sin, a health ministry in Kathmandu. And this is why any system works best when the people it affects, help shape decisions before they are taken and not after.
[2644.90-2657.01]  That means including civil society, communities, national governments, as co-authors in the very architects of reform, including UNITY, and not mere bystanders to it.
[2657.01-2684.75]  The second is a shift in practice, from belief to evidence, from commitments to accountability. For decades, feminists have pushed for policy grounded in scientific data and lived experiences, and the multilateral system gave us shared tools to do that. The SDGs, their targets, and their indicators. We know what is counted is what is funded, and what is invisible is the first to be traded away.
[2684.75-2713.79]  If multilateralism weakens, we lose the common yardsticks that let us hold those in power to account. We must try instant to strengthen them, make them more inclusive and justice-based, while we follow every pledge that is made this week into next year's budgets and even beyond into policies and services. The resources are within reach. What is missing is political will, and that is exactly what rooms like this can supply.
[2713.79-2723.06]  The third and last is a shift in partnership. From coordination to constituency building, numbers become power only when they are organized.
[2723.06-2752.34]  Partnerships is how we build that power, sharing information, knowledge and skills so that we bring others along with us. More than 1,400 organizations from 146 countries have already joined the Feminist Cross Coalition's call on UN80. That is a growing constituency. We urge you to invest in these efforts with core, flexible, long-term funding, including for bold, creative ideas that don't fit neatly into log frames.
[2752.34-2777.62]  but instead protect those very dedicated mandates and institutions that keep these issues on the agenda. Yes, the pushback is organized, but then so are we. We are standing on 80 years of feminist work both outside and inside these walls. While Arrow and many others from the FCC present here today commit to continue bringing evidence from the country level to missions and capitals, we urge member states to meet us there.
[2777.62-2797.30]  open the rooms, follow your pledges into your budgets. We urge donors and our UN colleagues to support and resource these important efforts and make the coming years of multilateralism the ones that finally deliver for every woman and girl in all her diversity, leaving no one behind. Thank you.
[2800.98-2832.38]  Before giving the floor to Spock May with her indulgence, I'm going to give the floor to Nepal, who is in the room and unfortunately has to leave us soon. Please. Thank you, Madam Moderator. Excellencies, distinguished delegates. We thank Mexico and UN Women and all other partners for organizing this timely dialogue. For Nepal, feminist multilateralism is all about making our multilateral institutions
[2832.38-2861.78]  more inclusive, representative and responsive and accountable. And our commitment has firmly anchored in our constitution itself with guarantees, equality and women's rights. As co-chair of the feminist foreign policy plus group, Nepal remains committed to advancing gender responsive and inclusive multilateralism. Excellencies at home, women hold more than
[2861.78-2892.70]  one-third of seats in federal parliament and over 40 percent of elected positions at local levels. And their participation is also growing across public institutions, diplomatic services, security sector and UN peacekeeping and others. Allow me to highlight three priorities for action. First, we must ensure women's full, equal and meaningful leadership in every level and across all UN bodies.
[2892.70-2921.25]  When women participate as equal decision-makers, institutions benefit from broader perspective and leave experiences. And their leadership strengthens conflict prevention, peace-building, climate action, digital governance and sustainable development. Second, we must ensure that gender equality remains central to the governance ecosystem. And we need to address its structural barriers, strengthen accountability,
[2921.25-2952.43]  mobilize adequate resources and ensuring that women and girls can meaningfully shape decision affecting their lives. Third, we must close the implementation gap. We have made numerous commitments, but commitments alone are not enough. They should be translated into concrete actions with resources, protection, and justice to all women and girls. In closing, their empowerment is not only a matter of equality,
[2952.43-2985.17]  It is an investment in our sustainable future. And reinvigorating feminist multilateralism is about reinvigorating multilateralism itself. And it is a practical pathway to more just, peaceful, and resilient societies. Thank you. Thank you, Nepal, for being part of this partnership. And we look forward to continue to working closely with you. Thank you for your presence here. Please, Spock May.
[2988.43-3016.00]  Dear colleagues, excellencies, on behalf of the Feminist Foreign Policy Collaborative, we're proud to co-sponsor this event and excited to be a part of this initiative. Feminist Foreign Policy, or FFP, as many in this room know, was first introduced to the world stage just 12 years ago, and over the course of its lifetime has been embraced across all United Nations regions in several multilateral settings and by diverse and global civil society.
[3016.00-3026.27]  Throughout its journey, it has gathered multiple lessons in transforming power, practice, and partnerships that we can apply to multilateralism. First on power.
[3026.27-3049.89]  FFP asks us to interrogate the very foundations of foreign policy, state security, and international institutions. It compels us to place people's rights, dignity, and livelihoods at the center of diplomacy and policymaking, and it does so through a structural analysis of how racism, capitalism, xenophobia, and patriarchy are driving state decision-making.
[3049.89-3065.28]  FFP governments through adoption of this agenda have willingly reckoned with their past, present and future and advocates are pushing them to reconceptualize power in service of good as opposed to military or economic prowess.
[3065.28-3090.91]  Though ongoing, the FFP field has challenged the realpolitik of the current geopolitical moment as we witness on the general assembly stage this week and despite all odds as we see today, champions continue to come together to push forward this agenda. Next on practice, FFPs have brought gender equality to various foreign policy fora, from trade to migration to sustainable development and more.
[3090.91-3120.61]  FFP governments have entered into bilateral south-south and circular cooperation agreements around this agenda and have innovated strategies to institutionalize gains on gender equality against political turnover, such as constitutional amendments and presidential decrees. Whether they be legal, political, financial, or policy-oriented, multilateralism, like FFP, has multiple tools at its disposal that it can use to uplift and protect a progressive agenda.
[3120.61-3147.90]  and most importantly, on partnership. FFP is rooted in a long legacy of feminist movement building and has brought civil society and government into regular partnership and exchange. Over time, I hope this will continue to adapt, expand, improve and equalize. Several governments have appointed civil society advisory boards to oversee their FFP implementation, while others have hosted consultations to advise on design and accountability.
[3147.90-3175.92]  Earlier this year, the government of Spain hosted the fifth ministerial conference on FFP, supporting day-long civil society exchange, and for the first time ever, offered civil society an opportunity to review the conference's declaration before it was finalized. And at the collaborative, we're excited to announce a continuation of our own FFP Accountability Project, a public website tracking commitments that emerge from the now annual FFP ministerial conferences.
[3175.92-3205.30]  So as we push for a feminist multilateralism, I hope the UN system will gather lessons learned from FFP's efforts to question and redistribute power, protect gender equality gains, and consistently find new allies amid challenges to broaden the scope of possibility and impact. As Spain's Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez, a champion and practitioner of feminist foreign policy, said just this week, feminism is one of the main forces of transformation and progress that the world has experienced.
[3205.30-3241.36]  in the last century, and it's time for this force to guide this institution. Thank you. I thank the representatives of Civil Society. Civil Society is always at the center of everything that we have achieved until now and like fundamental partners for us to continue together in this like long fight, I think. Mr. U.S., Mrs. U.S., he's seen my papa, who's thank you so much for being with us. Thank you for your focus and support.
[3246.51-3275.04]  We will now invite all participants to join the dialogue. I have first the pleasure to give the floor to a member of the government of Zimbabwe. Ah, perfect. Thank you so much Minister for being with us. Do you have floor is yours? Thank you, moderator. Excellency is distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen. As the Minister of Zimbabwe, we want to thank you and women.
[3275.04-3303.65]  and also the co-sponsors for organizing this high-level dialogue on reinvigorating feminist multilateralism at a time when the multilateral system faces profound challenges from conflict and humanitarian crisis to climate change, inequality, and shrinking development resources. These challenges demand stronger international cooperation, not less.
[3303.65-3332.24]  For Zimbabwe, multilateralism remains indispensable, but it can only be credible and legitimate when women are not merely beneficiaries of its outcomes, but leaders, decision makers, and architects of solutions. While progress has been made in Zimbabwe, women still remain underrepresented in many centers of political and international decision making. The challenge before us is therefore not a lack of commitment.
[3332.24-3340.69]  but the need to accelerate implementation. Provide that adequate resources which is needed and strengthen accountability.
[3340.69-3369.57]  Zimbabwe remains committed to advancing women's meaningful participation and leadership at national, regional, and international levels. Our progress includes increased representation of women across political, civil, service, security, and justice sector. And we are quite happy that the justice sector will have done extremely well. The Chief Justice is a woman. The Attorney General is a woman. And the prosecutor general is a woman and also the magistrate. Chief magistrate is a woman.
[3369.57-3402.85]  And thank you very much. Yet, representation must translate into influence. Women must have the power to share priorities, decisions, and outcomes. So a reinvigorated feminist multilateralism must also reflect the diverse realities of women and girls, include those in rural and underserved communities, women with disabilities, young women, and those affected by conflict.
[3402.85-3429.84]  prepares to serve on the United Nations Security Council for the 2027 to 2028 term. We will use this responsibility to advance the women, peace and security agenda, amplify African perspectives, and promote inclusive human-secured center approaches to peace. As I conclude, let this dialogue move us from commitment to action.
[3429.84-3454.29]  and from the representation to real influence, a truly inclusive multilateral system is one in which women's leadership is not an aspiration, but an integral part of how decisions are made and implemented. As a country, Zimbabwe remains committed to working with all of your partners to build that multilateral system, which will be inclusive. I thank you, sincerely.
[3460.27-3479.47]  Thank you very much Minister and for your presence as well. I always say that Latin America and Africa we have to join in a more like strong way our hands in order to push forward this agenda. There is a lot that we have to learn from you.
[3479.98-3507.34]  So I will continue to give the floor in this dialogue that we are starting to both member states and other institutional actors. Please, your intervention should be limited to two minutes. Introduce yourself and your delegation first. And then I will also return to our panelists for any comment that they would have on these interventions. I have a request from Claudette Segura, researcher and peace building officer.
[3507.34-3513.50]  that I would like to offer your perspective. Thank you so much.
[3513.50-3542.93]  Good afternoon, Buena Stardes. I'm very happy to be here, and I thank the invitation and the organizers for putting this event together. As a young peace builder from Latin America, working with the Global Network of Women Peace Builders, I think the most urgent shift that should happen is to go from consultation to share decision making. Women and young women are often invited to participate in these type of consultations and ask to share their experiences.
[3542.93-3555.42]  And I believe that is important, but I don't think that is enough. Their knowledge should help shape policies, funding, and implementation from the beginning, not after the decisions have already been made.
[3555.42-3574.82]  I saw this very clearly through the work that we do with localization of the Women, Peace, and Security agenda in Colombia. Our work with women peace builders from different places, such as Choco, the Colombian Carriven, Bogota, La Ojira, and Soaccia, they use these feminist values, such as already that, and shared leadership, and dozens.
[3574.82-3604.14]  don't stay as just abstract principles, but they do become ways of making decisions, setting the priorities, and building collective action. Just a quick example, I know I'm sure in time, but in Pueblo Biajo, in the department of Magdalena, the women peace builders with association collective of Mujeres Alderecho, also known as Colle Math, they led a community based process to develop a public policy on the localization of WPS and sustainable development. The first WPS localization experience
[3604.14-3628.75]  experience of its kind in that specific department. What I think was particularly important is that this process went beyond the consultation. The municipality made space not only physically, but also institutionally. And I'm saying physically because even the major made this formal commitment to donate office space for them. For women organizations to organize and turn WPS, WPS principles into action.
[3628.75-3658.03]  And just to finalize, this matters for multilateralism because global commitments only have impact when they're translated into local decision-making. Localization is itself a model of multilateralism that we're calling for. The one where power starts with the communities and not with the institutions. Lastly, the goal for our initiative is not to collect local experiences and translate them into recommendations from New York, but to understand from local organizations what is working and one is to change. And I just want to say this.
[3658.03-3676.85]  So we can create a space that is more inclusive and more accountable for women and girls that it is meant to serve. Thank you. Thank you very much, Claudette. And is there any member state or organization that would like to take the floor, please?
[3678.83-3698.08]  This is Mauro from the Permanent Mission of Tunisia. I'm lucky to come from a country where gender equality is a reality. We have a head of government women and we have always had very good rules and laws for women. Pulliam is prohibited by the law. We have the...
[3698.08-3727.50]  have the sexual and predictive health and rights in Tunisia. And we have many, many of which we are very proud. But I just wanted to talk today about the civil society participation. I cannot imagine any negotiation and any process of the United Nations talking about women without considering the civil society. I love to work with the civil society and I want to hear a lot from them. So I don't know if there is any way to give them more room and to make them their voices
[3727.50-3756.72]  stronger and more healable because we sometimes see the agreed languages on this participation of the civil society, very opposed by some members. And this is something that is not acceptable for us. And I just wanted to celebrate today the civil society participation of the civil society present with us today. And I wanted to make sure that they are present, heard, and I will not take much more time.
[3756.72-3784.16]  Just one point I wanted to raise. Thank you. Thank you. As I was saying in Latin America, we have, I think, a very strong and active feminist movement. And if it weren't for them, I think that none of us would be sitting here. So I'm always grateful for that.
[3784.16-3804.90]  At every reform legislative reform in Mexico was also at the civil society was at the core of it. So I completely agree with you and we should work together in order exactly to open more spaces for civil society participation. In a moment where unfortunately several states are pushing for the exact opposite.
[3804.90-3836.11]  We have to reflect on that. Anyone else would like to take the floor? Please, I will take two more interventions, and then we go back to our panelists, three more interventions. Please. We're hosting this amazing dialogue. My name is Alan Crita D'Al, and I serve as the science policy data focal point for the United Nations major group for children and youth. And looking at the discussions here today, I'm really excited to see how much energy we have.
[3836.11-3858.16]  how much we're thinking towards working towards these goals. And from the youth perspective, I wanted to share three main points of what we'd like to urge the member states to do, which is one, to share the table. Let's move from consulting youth to giving young feminist leaders formal recognized decision making seats in peace negotiations and policy design.
[3858.16-3887.47]  Secondly, let's fund the front lines. We should channel flexible direct resources directly to grassroots youth-led feminist movements who are actively sustaining communities on the ground. And then lastly, let's protect civic space and defend young activists from systemic silencing, backlash, and intimidation both in public life and across digital spaces. So thank you again for hosting this in one multi-lateralism centers, feminist values, and intergenerational
[3887.47-3924.80]  justice. It really sees us to be a room full of rhetoric and it becomes an engine for real peace. I really appreciate all of you and thank you for bringing us together. Thank you for being here and for these very pertinent proposals. Thank you. Thank you. International Center for Transitional Justice and I was with the UN for 34 years and many peace operations. There's been a lot of discussion on
[3924.80-3952.35]  in terms of how to tackle reinvigorating feminist multilateralism on different groups, organizations, and acknowledging the pushback from certain areas. One of the obvious multilateral organizations is the Security Council that has a particular impact for the participation, protection, empowerment of women and girls. They adopted 10 resolutions for the WPS.
[3952.35-3975.74]  agenda and importantly all of them unanimous except for one and that only had two abstentions. So my question is when you have a strong framework like the WPS agenda that is really an embodiment of trying to strengthen feminism, why there's not more focus on the non-implementation of those
[3975.74-4004.18]  resolutions and the 2015 study with over 94 recommendations on the gaps for closing implementation. I wrote an article on this and I think that we need to hold the Security Council accountable. When you think of Afghanistan, there's a resolution that supported the strategic review and an appointment of a special envoy and that's never happened. Women in Gaza, Sudan, Myanmar, Haiti and the rest. So I think that
[4004.18-4028.59]  It would be important to address how can everyone collectively hold the Security Council to greater accountability and implementation of the WPS agenda with specific ideas on the modalities to do that. Thank you. Thank you very much. I will ask the panelists in a little bit to answer and to have more or less some ideas about this question, please.
[4030.00-4046.03]  My name is Josefina Tsarria. I'm from Colombia, but I work at the University of Notre Dame. I have a project that monitors the implementation of pizza courts, and I just wanted us to think that a way of reintegrating feminist multilateralism.
[4046.03-4075.34]  Of course, it's by bringing women into the table by considering provisions for gender, quality, socioeconomic rights. But also we need to be part of the verification mechanisms and the monitoring of those agreements. And I think that it's important to have those three moments of intervention because without a monitoring system for the verification of the implementation of any agreement, we will always be asking ourselves what is happening to implementation.
[4075.34-4103.14]  I would like to add that reification or monitoring aspect to the discussion. Thank you very much. Thank you. Before going back to our panelists for this, I think that's something that we have been reflecting in the case of Mexico a lot around this is instead of because the backlash is real and also the different positions, no?
[4103.14-4132.82]  Many countries have new governments that don't support the gender equality agenda and we have been thinking about instead of Putting their out of their new mandates to actually try to focus on how we implement and monitor what we have achieved so far and that could actually make the agenda stronger so just a reflection from like us in my capacity of national from Mexico so
[4132.82-4163.23]  Please, I go back to the panel for any reflections. I see that Thais is ready. Thank you, Ambassador. Just to react on a few things, Brazil is obviously very engaged with the WPS agenda. And regarding the monitoring and implementation of decisions by member states, I would just like to remind, of course, of the revitalization of the CSW and how many of our delegations have been very supported of a stronger review process. We will keep up this fight.
[4163.23-4190.77]  for next year with a resolution on methods of work, but be assured that member states are engaged, Brazil and like-minded are very engaged in this process. Regarding the gender action plan on COP30 that was adopted, Brazil is also very engaged in making sure that the following presidencies of the COPs remain committed to the gender action plan. And thinking of the...
[4190.99-4220.70]  the issue of level of representation of women in different governments. Many people mentioned that and the experience in their own governments. I was just reminded of a recent declaration by one of Brazil's members of our Supreme Court. Our Supreme Court has 11 judges, only one is a woman. She is the first woman in over 130 years and someone asked her, so would you be happy if the
[4220.70-4244.42]  Would you think that gender parity would be accomplished if six of the judges were women? And she said, no. I want them all to be women, because you had 130 years, so now it's our turn. And for many, it sounds like it's a joke. It's ridiculous to think of a Supreme Court, 11 Supreme Court being only women. So in that case, she was, you know,
[4244.42-4280.48]  I invite to invite everyone who thinks it is ridiculous to think of how immoral and ridiculous it is to have 130 years of 11 judges being all men. And obviously that applies to international organizations, teams, and workforces. So let's keep up the good fight. Let's keep it. As somebody else from the panel would like to comment.
[4280.48-4317.09]  If not, then I would, do you want to say something? Okay, so we'll take some few interventions, additional interventions from the room, if anybody's interested, please. Hello, my name is Alex Nelson. I'm a member of the Youth Reference Group at Men Engage Global Alliance. Earlier on, it was mentioned briefly about men in positions of power and how this can shift narratives and multilateralism. Engaging men in power is very important.
[4317.09-4344.45]  because those already at the table must see themselves as inseparable from the system's patriarchal systems and gender inequality. Engaging men and power requires identifying meaningful entry points for them to see themselves not as gender neutral actors but as gendered beings themselves whose identities, experiences, and decisions are shaped by patriarchal masculinies and whose power can reinforce or transform these norms. That way engagement can move beyond individual awareness toward true accountability.
[4344.45-4382.42]  by examining how institutional systems produce gender inequality and create concrete opportunities for them to use their influence to truly advance gender justice. If men in positions of power can see how their own lived experiences are inseparable from the very structures that hinder human potential, then we can create an opening to ask not simply whether they support equality, but how they are positioned to either reproduce or transform these systems that stand in its way. Thank you very much.
[4382.42-4403.70]  Please, just the last, the last intervention from the floor. You wanted to take the floor? Yes. Thank you so much for having us here. Just two very quick points. One about the.
[4403.70-4426.14]  about the mergers, basically, about the UN-80 reforms. The first point is just about, you know, the UN-AIDS sun setting. We do believe, I'm from the Feminist Cross Coalition, by the way, sorry. We do believe that the UN-80's sun setting is more of a political choice. That was the one system that had civil society built into sort of the consultation of it, built into the governance of it.
[4426.14-4451.09]  And we'd like to thank Marwa from Tunisia who brought up the Society consultation, which we think is very important. And thank you for all the Society speakers here. And in that same vein, we're viewing also the merger between UNFPA and UN Women. And I think as we're talking about the future of a feminist multilateral system, we don't think that that can exist without UN Women existing. And so we would just like to make that.
[4451.09-4479.97]  Common that the work that UN Women has done, the institutional history that it has built, the staff, the members, all the work, all the country hosts, everything that has built, and everything that obviously UNFBA also has, all of that is put into risk if the murder goes forward. So more of just a request, a statement that we are not against reforms, we are for reforms, but just not a reform that will put gender equality in women's rights.
[4479.97-4520.82]  and girls' rights into peril. Thank you very much. We will move now to the final priority interventions since we have the interpreters only until 5 p.m. So please, her excellency, Nivratam Ulamula. Thank you very much. I was a Jennifer. I don't know how many minutes you are giving me. I see my friend and one day I'm doing like this, meaning I'm getting more time.
[4520.82-4550.30]  Jen wants to do that. So thank you very much. I want to bring in the voice of the African Union, the special envoy on women in prison security. I carry this agenda. But I want to thank you, Mexico, you and women, my dear sister, Calama. And you know in our language, I come from Tanzania. In our language, Calama means wisdom.
[4550.30-4584.24]  But also, I wanted to thank you because after a long hectic week, how invigorating to end the day with such an invigorating theme of dialogue and invigorating feminist immortalityism.
[4584.66-4617.17]  You know this morning, I was listening to the reflections from the CNN on what is going on. Now, maternalism, it is labeled as impeller, as in under seat, as being in crisis, as being waning. But then, as we all know, under any conflict situations.
[4617.17-4646.80]  Or when there is a mess, even for the family level, especially when men make a mess. Oftentimes, with your respect to this. So then, the women always come in to clear the mess. So this is why I'm getting so very much inspired.
[4646.80-4677.42]  By this, I have wrap up. I've not even started. So, of course, I would not want to repeat all that to what has been said. But one thing that will live with me, that maternalism needs women and women need maternalism. But also, Sima reminded us that the UN Charter
[4678.26-4710.35]  that brings us all together every day, starts with we the people, and we are the people. And as the Chinese say, women hold half of the sky. How do you live out half of the sky? So this is the message here, and I want to thank also our minister from Zimbabwe. Because we are going, and somebody mentioned,
[4710.83-4741.09]  that we are counting on the secure council, that we need through this feminist movement to hold the secure council accountable for the resolutions, many resolutions that she's faced that have been adopted but not implemented. So with your voice, you will help us when you are in the secure council. And more important, we say it and everyone say it. It's not about being at the table.
[4741.09-4772.54]  all being present, it's about the influence we bring, it's about the decision we make, we influence the decisions, but also bringing transformative change. So on that note, I know we are ending this event, but the dialogue continues. And next week, next month will be in the Security Council.
[4772.54-4804.45]  the WPS week, and please the civil society. Let's continue with this immigration momentum. I'm known by other names as mama momentum. Let's keep up the momentum. Thank you very much. Thank you. I would like to ask for two minutes more if it's possible for the interpreters. Just I have one more intervention, two minutes if it's possible, if not then. Okay.
[4804.45-4828.69]  So just the last speaker before we leave, I want to make just a very quick note and to thank really men who are here. Yes. I think it's important to have them participating and engaged and committed to discuss otherwise it's only collective therapy. So thank you very much.
[4828.98-4857.89]  Please, Dr. Sara Taylor, take the floor from Women, Peace and Security Specialists, please. Thank you, dear colleagues. Thank you to all who are here as part of this conversation and have worked so hard on this discussion. I'm the founder of the Asturism Initiative, and I've been delighted to work on the development of this work on feminist multilateralism. And I very much hope to work with all of you as we move
[4857.89-4887.86]  forward to make this multilateral feminist multilateralism a reality. So on that note, I would like us to look forward, and I would like us to look forward by suggesting commitments that governments and all of us can make for the future. We must build on a key principle reiterated today that women in all their diversity are the architects who should shape the future of multilateralism. That feminist multilateralism can only be built through a process that is political, pragmatic,
[4887.86-4917.65]  ambitious, and that addresses the sources of inequity currently embedded in the international system. As a principled first step towards the reinvigoration of multilateralism, member states should act as strong advocates of feminist multilateralism, defending this system and the rights it guarantees, and commit to funding this crucial work. So, over the next year, in partnership, stakeholders can host a summit
[4917.65-4943.52]  on feminist multilateralism in your country or region, building trust and community while determining the concrete path forward. Member States can bring civil society delegations focused on feminist multilateralism to CSW and to the next UNGA. Member States can also bring the feminist multilateralism initiative into the work of multilateral fora in their regions, which is crucially important.
[4943.52-4972.88]  and into the work such as the Feminist Foreign Policy Group, Friends of Mediation, the Friends of Women, Peace and Security, et cetera. And of course, all relevant stakeholders can take forward and fund the solutions that these dialogues surface. And of course, one year from now, co-host, the second high-level event on feminist multilateralism at UNGA 82, using it as a showcase to galvanize others to act as we move forward on renewing multilateralism.
[4972.94-5004.19]  That's your homework for the next year. As Hibak said, multilateralism is oxygen. It is time for us to partner to ensure that all can breathe deeply. Thank you.
[5004.19-5026.08]  that we are going to have a second round of this dialogue next on the next general assembly consultations in Mexico in the meantime. But yeah, I think that the dialogue has to be a lot more regular than that, which we're not waiting one year to see, again, to join forces for this.
[5026.08-5054.10]  very important topic right now. So thank you very much all for being here on Friday afternoon, the end of the high-level week. We still have a lot of work to do. Thank you so much for again for the UN Women's Support and Commitment. Thank you so much, Ambassador. Thank you for your amazing moderation and thank you very much for partnering. Thank you to everybody. Thank you.
