UNREVIEWED MACHINE TRANSCRIPTION of the English audio/interpretation track. Not an official UN record. Speaker identities are not inferred. Verify against the recording.
https://webtv.un.org/en/asset/k1b/k1b3ky3mos

[4.40-241.44]  Good morning. Good afternoon. Good evening for those of you around the world watching us from the SDG media zone This report makes it clear That the 1.5 degrees Celsius target that all of us have agreed to that we have established 11 years ago in Paris We have committed ourselves to achieving that 1.5 degree goal which is a goal that basically means that if we stay below 1.5 degree global warming
[241.44-271.22]  We are still in a relatively safe space. But now we know that we are going to exceed 1.5 degrees Celsius. The consequence of that exceedance is that we are going to face extreme weather events. And here today we are talking about extreme heat. And you have cited one of these statistics that are very abstract 500,000 deaths per year.
[271.70-299.06]  that is the impact of global warming today. Now, we are not locked into a future. The future is not written yet. What we are highlighting in our analysis, in our reports, in our talks is that we still have a good chance to limit global warming. We cannot prevent
[299.09-330.16]  the 1.5. We will not stay below the 1.5. We will exceed, but we can go back. And it's a huge difference if we are living in a world of 1.4 degrees, 1.6, 1.8, or 2 degrees of global warming. So in that sense, every fraction of a degree matters because the world will look very different depending on how long and how high we are exceeding the 1.5 degree target.
[330.35-359.30]  So our call to action from unit is We need to put more emphasis on mitigating greenhouse gases That is the recipe that we have known for a long long time. It's the only recipe that ultimately works we have to mitigate and Keep the emissions as low as possible So that we do not live
[359.30-390.06]  in a future in a world that is not manageable anymore. And Vice Minister Maluf Brazil has been at the forefront of this of this struggle and Brazil has more cities engaged in the beat the heat initiative than any other country 136 and counting how does Brazil tackle this issue of extreme heat for cities and and how does this great national participation translate into into real impact on the ground.
[390.22-415.86]  Thank you, Martina. Well Brazil has been facing extreme heat for a long time, you know the north and the north east of Brazil They are already facing Consequences of heat for for many many years and what we have seen is that different cities were trying to do a different approaches Some of them were doing protocols for health
[415.86-441.84]  or labor, some were thinking about public spaces, schools and hospitals. So seeing that the cities were trying to do things, but they didn't have too much of a guidance. They didn't have so many tools available for them to support. The federal government decided to create this interministerial structure because
[441.84-461.60]  not only Brazil, but I guess all around the world, there is no heat minister. Nobody, you know, by themselves can solve the issue. So we brought all the ministers together, all the states, a lot of the cities. We created this kind of governance structure that from the local level should...
[461.60-487.36]  the regional governments and the federal, we would all propose the ideas together in how to implement this urban resiliency in order to do with extreme heat. Then, supported by UNAP, we started to do a national plan, a national plan on cooling and heating, and protocols and action plans to support cities to prepare themselves with
[487.36-516.42]  temporary long-term actions you know what they're gonna do in this next year I don't know if you're all aware but this year unfortunately we are gonna leave the worst El Nino in the history so not only we have three four degrees higher on the temperature in some areas which mean at the Amazon region for example cities will be isolated because the rivers will go down and
[516.42-546.38]  There's no way to get there. So for at least six months, we are preparing. We are sending fuel. We are sending food to stock in the cities because they will be isolated. So what we realize is that even us doing national plans and programs and guides and supporting the cities, how to do it, they also lack tools to implement it. So we recently launched an app, which is also a web platform.
[546.38-570.67]  that mayors, they get online by satellites and partnerships we've had on under the heat, bringing together all these institutions. The mayor can see clearly where the heat islands will be, what type of infrastructure are there, and a list of suggestions on what he can do on the short term, mid term, and long term.
[570.67-598.93]  Of course, we want to do a nature-based solution, urban trees, you know. There's a lot of actions, passive cooling, sustainable construction. There's a lot of actions that mayors need to do, all the governments. But they take long. But in the short term, there are also things we can do with protocols, with temporary solutions. So that's where we are now with Pitehid, supported by UNAP and all this range of stakeholders.
[598.93-628.29]  and partners that came on board for a bit of heat. We've been able to support cities and we've seen the examples on how they're leveraging the action that they were doing at a faster speed because as we all know, heat is such a difficult challenge for mayors, extreme heat and extreme weather events are more and more making it more difficult for them.
[628.29-653.81]  The immediate reflex is to plug in more air conditioning, which of course drives up energy demand, dumps waste heat right back into the streets. Are there other solutions, nature-based solutions that UNEP is working on with cities? Yeah, Martina, you're right. So one thing is clear. We cannot air condition our way out of the climate crisis. Currently...
[654.10-683.98]  cooling is responsible for 7% of all greenhouse gas emissions. 7%. With extreme heat, this will at least triple in the years to come. What that means, the requirement on the national grids to feed air conditioning systems and other cooling equipment is huge and it's going to expand.
[683.98-714.62]  So there is potentially a vicious cycle because in many countries the electricity grid is dirty, is not clean. Meaning we are burning fossil fuels to generate electricity. So if the demand for electricity because of extreme heat and because of the requirement for cooling is expanding, we are going to enter into a vicious cycle if we are going
[714.62-744.40]  to just trying to air condition our way out of the climate crisis. Now, I have said this because I want to point to another solution, and that is what Adalberto has already mentioned, passive cooling in urban spaces, such as very simple solutions, planting trees, greenery, you know, having parks around. These passive cooling measures can reduce
[744.40-772.50]  temperatures between three, four, five degrees. So you lower the need for additional cooling if you first implement passive cooling measures. And there are many others in using specific building materials or greening the roofs of houses. And there's a long list of measures, passive cooling measures.
[772.50-800.29]  that can be deployed, that are being deployed as we speak, that can lower that need for additional cooling using air conditioners. Many people also, let's not forget to live in urban areas, do not even have the economic means of buying an air conditioner system. So ventilators, for example, is another way of bringing temperature down in closed spaces for three, four, five degrees.
[800.29-825.01]  So that is another solution, and they consume much, much less electricity than air conditioners. Yes, and you alluded to it, the poorest neighborhoods are often the most affected by the heat. So in Brazil, how do you make sure that the heat adaptation measures actually reach also the poorest informal settlements that are hit by the most brutal heat?
[825.01-854.69]  No, you're right Martina what we saw at least in Brazil and I guess most around the world Is that the most vulnerable communities in the peripheries of our big cities are the one most affected not only by heat by all the extreme weather events floods or you know different actions that can happen and In our program what we decided to do is that most of the actions we do we target this
[854.69-882.70]  most vulnerable periphery area so we did bids and the investments we have been doing on nature-based solutions and also the protocols supporting cities they have a whole focus on the vulnerable communities so basically initially we took what are the the the groups of people that would be most exposed so of course children and elderly are the ones now we are mapping deaths
[882.70-912.22]  in Brazil out on an hourly base. So we know very clearly when temperature goes from 45 degrees Celsius to 47 to 49, we know exactly how many people will die extra because of this heat. So we are starting to map where these people live so that when the temperature is going up, we can go there and bring these persons to some safer protected areas.
[912.22-939.60]  during those hours of the day, because unfortunately, if they stay at their house, there's a big probability that they won't survive. So it's more an proactive approach now with the Civil Defense Minister of Health, Minister of Environment, a group of Ministerial approach, trying to understand where the most vulnerable people are.
[939.76-969.73]  what actions could we do in preparation so that they, you know, are ready when the extreme heat events are there and trying to unify data in the systems because also in the case of Brazil, the Minister of Health has a known data. The Minister of Environment has other on air quality and heat. Civil Defence has the alert systems for the population. So we hope to implement soon else in the partnership with UNAPTIS alert systems.
[969.73-998.35]  out of a two kilometers from the cell phone stations, that you will give alerts to them, look, the temperature is this, please go to this place to protect yourself. So I think we have to change the way that historically we approach it. Governments need to be more proactively getting into the most vulnerable places so that we mitigate the impact of extreme heat.
[998.70-1026.61]  Thank you, and we do have to wrap it up here But this is definitely an issue that will continue to be too hot to ignore and we will continue to watch what unit comes up with in terms of solutions and what leaders like you are implementing on the ground and Any final words from from the two of you to wrap it up? Yeah, I mean, I just just very briefly I just want to point to a the global cooling pledge 76 countries have signed
[1026.61-1053.54]  the Global Cooling Pledge, which is a commitment to address extreme heat, especially in urban cities, and to promote sustainable cooling solutions. We have also created a platform for companies, for manufacturers of cooling equipment, to use minimum energy performance standards for the cooling equipment.
[1053.54-1079.76]  to lower the consumption of electricity that comes along with plugging in a cooling equipment. So there are solutions that UNIP, with many, many other partners, is supporting, and I want to invite everybody to join us. Thank you. Yeah, well, I think for Brazil, it took us a long time to integrate the climate change and their quality agenda.
[1079.76-1109.18]  And we saw the benefits of integrating both of them. There's new reports from UNAP showing, you know, $15 return forever dollar doing on that. But I think now our most urgent challenge is to integrate the cooling and the heating strategy. And how we are going to address both topics together, because there is a demand, a growing demand for cooling in our cities, in the case of Brazil, six out of 10.
[1109.18-1137.86]  Schools are in hotspots of extreme heat. So we're gonna have to do something there But I think that the the answer for us is how we're gonna break bring back nature to this debate and use nature basic solution and cheaper like passive cooling Solutions to reduce the demand for air conditioners, but at the same time created this environment that
[1137.86-1362.06]  You know, our schools, our hospitals, public spaces and all the other different areas. They could deal and be more prepared to deal with extreme heat and get a little bit more prepared for the future. Thank you very much. Thanks to both of you. Thank you for watching. SDG Media Zone. We're going to go from the solutions that were just presented on the urban resilience to extreme heat.
[1362.06-1391.12]  amazing conversation. I love when the speakers bring us some solutions. You know, we talked about the issues, but we really need to find those solutions. So that was great to have that to kick us off this morning on that incredibly important issue of extreme heat and working through that. We're going to continue on the climate theme. Next, I'm going to turn the floor over to Laura Gegel, the managing editor from live science to take us through this conversation from evidence to action, making climate and biodiversity change.
[1391.12-1419.92]  visible. Laura, over to you. Thank you. All right. Our climate is changing and not everyone can agree on why this is happening. Although younger generations understand the urgency more than older generations, research studies from Pew Research Center show that about 50% of Americans agree that humans are mostly the cause of climate change.
[1419.92-1447.76]  But this statistic has stayed constant more or less since 2016, showing that Americans, we don't have a growing amount of people agreeing with the vast majority of scientists. Also, we're losing an alarming amount of our biodiversity, largely because of climate change, pollution, habitat loss, and fragmentation, and over exploitation, like overfishing. So it's not looking too good, but...
[1447.76-1476.29]  Even though it's easy to feel overwhelmed and paralyzed with news of climate change and biodiversity last in today's world, we do have people who are fighting back. We have scientists and filmmakers and activists who are helping people who are helping to galvanize the public. Today, we will talk about from evidence to action and how we can tackle these complicated issues. Today, we have Dr. Kenneth Lachovara.
[1476.29-1504.46]  on the fireside here. Dr. LaCovara is a paleontologist and founding executive director of the Edelman Fossil Park in New Jersey. Dr. LaCovara brings the perspective of deep time with fossils and strata and past mass extinctions to reveal the consequences of planetary change. Also with us today is Louie Sihoyos, an Academy Award winning filmmaker.
[1504.46-1531.23]  who is also the Executive Director of the Oceanic Preservation Society. He was a National Geographic photographer for 18 years, and he's also the filmmaker behind the Cove and Racing Extinction. And finally, we are very lucky to have Tenisha Ramadas, a Singaporean youth researcher and program coordinator for the Asian Women in Science Mentorship Program at ULRI and the formal regional lead for SDA.
[1531.23-1561.39]  She's also with the Girl of Campaign of the United Nations Foundation. Thank you for joining us today. Let's start with a question for Dr. LaCovara. So you study mass extinctions that happened tens to hundreds of millions of years ago. When you're standing in front of a museum visitor, what's one thing you can say or show to them that will help them understand the urgency of mass extinctions so that they take action today and not tomorrow? Yeah, thank you, Laura.
[1561.58-1588.05]  The evidence is really in the past. It was Winston Churchill who said the further back you look, the further ahead you can see. And so I want to share with you today some deep time evidence of where we've been and how things have changed in the past. If we could get those slides up, that'd be great. There we go. So for the last 18 years, my crew and I have been excavating.
[1588.05-1612.90]  at the Edelman fossil park and museum in southern New Jersey and we have excavated over a hundred thousand fossils representing over a hundred species and each of these individuals like this crocodile here are literal victims of the asteroid strike. This is a 66 million year old tibia from a crocodile that was actually caught up in that very event.
[1612.90-1637.65]  was found in the layer along with the fallout from the impact that happened about 1500 miles away in Mexico material flew up into space landed all over the world including where this crocodile is living its best crocodile life and then got wiped out by an asteroid 66 million years ago. So this is what it looks like it's preserved in what we call Marl.
[1637.65-1657.79]  which is a marine sediment, and this catastrophe affected life on land and in the ocean. There have been five mass extinctions since we've had complex life on earth. The last one caused by an asteroid impact, but the previous four were all CO2 crises. And so we know that really.
[1657.79-1684.80]  CO2 is everything. CO2 determines whether we're Mars or Venus. It determines whether the Earth is a comfortable place to live or whether we have snowball Earth, which has happened in the past. So right now, what are we doing? Well, we're using the atmosphere as a garbage can. And we are right now up to about 430 parts per million. And we haven't seen 430 parts per million in 16 million years.
[1684.80-1713.94]  So, we have now created an atmosphere for ourselves that no human or nothing much like a human has ever experienced. And, you know, it's not the ultimate value that matters. It was actually warmer in the time of the dinosaurs, but it's the rate of change. And ecosystems and organisms can only adapt so fast and we're breaking the biological speed limit. Things cannot adapt to this rate of change. That and along with habitat destruction and, you know,
[1713.94-1743.50]  polluting the environment is resulting in a crash in our wildlife. According to the World Wildlife Fund, for monitored species, we've lost 73% since 1970. To me, that's shocking. To me, I wonder why that's not on the front page of every newspaper every single day. In terms of biomass of mammals, like literally get the mammals, put them on a scale, humans and our animals are now 96% of the biomass of mammals on Earth. All of the terrestrial animals, mammals are 2% all the marine mammals.
[1743.50-1768.02]  are 2%. And the petroleum age, which we are suffering from, yes, we've benefited from it, but we're suffering from it as well. It's less than 200 years old. And when you think about that, I mean, there are trees right out this window near the UN that are older than 200 years. So that's within the lifetime of a single organism. If you're an organism on Earth and the Earth gets hit by an asteroid in your lifetime, or if you're an oak tree,
[1768.02-1796.27]  And the world's climate change is catastrophically within your lifetime. It's the same, isn't it? It's instantaneous for life on Earth, for ecosystems on Earth. So we are now propagating the world's sixth mass extinction. In this scenario now, we're the asteroid. But we don't have to be. And I'd just like to leave you with this thought. If you were stranded on a little lifeboat in the middle of the Pacific Ocean with four or five other people, how much are you going to think about that lifeboat? How?
[1796.27-1800.00]  Often would you monitor it? How quick would you be to repair?
[1800.18-1828.77]  How much would you love that little lifeboat? That's exactly our situation. This is the famous Earthrise picture taken by astronaut Bill Andrews, the Apollo astronaut who first saw this view and he said we came all this way to explore the moon and we discovered the earth because this is truly our situation. We live on this little lonely rocky lifeboat in space. I'm sorry. There's no planet B. This is all we're ever going to have this earth and each other.
[1828.77-1859.68]  and it's time for us to be better ancestors. Thank you. That would like the fire under any museum visitor. All right, Mr. Sahoyos. The coven racing extinctions and it just informed people it changed their behavior. So what's the actual mechanism in a film that flipped someone from moved to motivated? Well, we did a film called Racing Extinction, which is about the six mass extinction. I think the change that we need, the evidence is there.
[1859.68-1882.16]  You need to change people's hearts. That's what we try to do is to take that information into action. Hollywood filmmakers is about $10 in a box of popcorn, butts in seats. I think about the audience's minds in seats. How can you change a mind so when they come out of the film, they're behaving differently? You see that film racing extinction. It helped.
[1882.16-1898.39]  Create laws that prevented some of the most endangered species in the world from being trafficked. There was laws that were put in place because of the events that happened. We did projections of a dangerous species in the Lampard State building we did on the UN in 2014 for the General Assembly.
