UNREVIEWED MACHINE TRANSCRIPTION of the English audio/interpretation track. Not an official UN record. Speaker identities are not inferred. Verify against the recording.
https://webtv.un.org/en/asset/k1f/k1fl6zf1j6

[53.14-77.60]  Hi, good afternoon everyone and welcome to the Golds Lounge. It's a pleasure to have you with us, both in the room and online, for today's conversation on innovation, discovery and global solutions. From exploring the universe to deepening our understanding of life here on Earth, the spirit of discovery has always expanded our horizons and challenged us to imagine new possibilities.
[77.60-106.34]  The questions we ask, the knowledge we pursue, and the breakthroughs we achieve continue to shape how we understand our world and the future we want to build. But progress does not happen in isolation. It depends on people coming together across disciplines, countries, and generations to share ideas, advance knowledge, and turn possibility into practical solutions. That is very much in the spirit of the Gold's Land, bringing different perspectives together.
[106.34-135.44]  creating space for conversations that can inspire new ideas and new opportunities. To begin today's conversation, I'm delighted to welcome Lauren Goode from Wired Magazine. But first, before I hand over to Lauren, let's hear from someone who joined us in the lounge earlier this year. Professor Brian Cox, you and champion for space, shed his perspective on the importance of exploration and our enduring curiosity about the universe and our place within it. Here's what he had to say.
[142.38-171.97]  For some reason, I like looking at the night sky. The more you know about every point of light, the more fascinating they become. This planet is one planet, around one star, amongst 400 billion stars. In one galaxy, amongst two trillion galaxies, in the piece of the universe we can see, and the universe may be infinite beyond that. I think there's something about that quest for knowledge, and the move outwards beyond that planet, that unifies
[171.97-208.29]  everybody on both kind of in the imagination as a spiritual you might say but also practically. So to me it's a wonderful opportunity we have now as for the first time we begin to move out and ultimately become a multi-planetary and I hope I always say an interstellar species. Thank you so much for joining us here today at the United Nations Goals Lounge.
[208.29-237.87]  For as long as humanity has existed, curiosity has pushed us towards the unknown, to look up at the stars, to ask what lies beyond our horizon, and to imagine possibilities that one seemed impossible. But exploration is not just about going farther. It's about expanding what we understand about ourselves, our planet, and once again, our possibilities for the future. It's about not just getting answers to questions, but asking the right questions.
[237.90-262.58]  Today we're going to hear from people helping us push those boundaries in very different ways. Some people, well, I was going to say, who have experienced the wonder of space firsthand, but I'm not quite sure anyone has been to space yet. That might be a goal of ours in the goals lounge. People who are advancing our understanding of the universe and who are turning scientific ideas and innovations into actual solutions.
[262.58-290.72]  We're going to begin today with Laurent Soron. He is Chief of the UN Office of Space Application Section. And then later, we're going to be hearing from Meredith Hughes, Professor of Astronomy and Amir Saraj, astrophysicists at Princeton University, and a concert pianist. But first, Laurent, thank you so much for joining me. Thank you. Thank you. Yes. All right. So Laurent, we often think of space as the great.
[290.72-305.02]  frontier, but from the UN's perspective, what does our exploration actually mean for humanity here on Earth? Why is it something that all nations should be working on together? Yes, thank you.
[305.02-331.39]  First of all, I just want to say I'm happy, of course, to have Brian Cox as our UN champion for space when our office proposed him. We knew that everybody knows him and very few of out there know us as an office. I think few know that there's a UN office for outer space affairs, that there's a UN committee on peaceful uses of outer space.
[331.39-350.66]  and that we are working every day in bringing the benefits of space to all countries around the world. And of course, before we even talk about exploration, there's a lot of the solutions that space brings to us, and that's, I think, part of the topic that we are discussing today.
[350.66-379.25]  application, solutions that all countries benefit from. And this is not something granted. There's over 100 countries that do not have direct access to space by themselves and our office. The work we do is to try and make that easier, make that possible, help countries build satellites, help countries launch satellites, help countries launch experiments into space that would then give them the access to
[379.25-397.28]  to what we discuss, to make them in a way able to explore and to see what space benefits would be. Now, back to the question, of course, what are, why do we think this is important?
[397.28-426.58]  In our interactions with countries, we see that there is a lot of interest in exploration, in using space, using space benefits. And again, there's very little capacity, there's very little knowledge, very little awareness of what possibilities exist. So that's why I think for us in the UN, it's important to make these connections. It's important to
[426.58-456.58]  to facilitate access of all countries to space. And again, I think without the work we do, without the work the Committee on Peace for Users Without a Space is doing, this is quite difficult. I think today we have seen the challenges that space debris is bringing to us, the challenges of access, the fact that with the multitude of satellites being launched, there's a concern that
[456.58-484.51]  in the future countries will have more limited access. And we need to look at all these. This is what our work is. And that's where we all come together. I think we have the, how should I say, the need for us all together as countries to work together in making these benefits more.
[484.51-513.65]  more universal in a way. We were talking earlier about how you have worked across seven different parts of the UN over a 30-year career at the UN. How does working for the space section, and by the way I joked earlier that your title sounds like something someone would put under their high school yearbook, like I'm going to be chief officer of space for the United Nations, and you've actually done it. But how would you say this, what you're working on now differs from
[513.65-527.44]  The problems on Earth at the UN is looking to sort of help solve. Well, I think as the chief of the space application section within the UN office for outer space affairs. There's that title again. That's the exact title, yes.
[527.44-546.67]  I think every day we see the needs, the demands that exist. Again, we have a program that looks at space technologies for disaster management, UN Spider. We have visited 55 countries in the last 20 years. The needs are just, well...
[546.67-568.86]  I mean, it's hard to describe how much need and how much support is required out there to make the benefits of these technologies more universal. Our work in the section is to try and do that to build capacity to train experts in those countries, to make them aware of what's out there.
[568.86-598.29]  And that is really keeping us busy. I think I could say that even if we had three times the staff and ten times the resources would not be enough. We really think it's important to do this. Again, I want to stress that there's currently about 94 countries that have direct access to space. So they operate their own assets or launch some objects into space. But there's another almost 100 that do not. And our work is to try and bring those benefits.
[598.29-620.82]  to all countries. That's what we try to do. What gives you the most hope for the future of space exploration right now? I think it's probably doing it together. I mean, the topic we discussed is also why should we do this together? To me, exploration and...
[620.82-647.10]  Exploiting the benefits of outer space is not something just for some. It's for all of us as nations. I would say 193 member states of the UN should have equal access, equitable access to space. I'm sure there's a lot of interesting things coming. I can sometimes hear our champion for space mentioning that and I believe that this is...
[647.10-670.46]  There's a lot to see. There's a lot of progress that we are expecting to see in the future, but I wish it would be all available for everybody and universal. Laurent, we have to move on to our next session, but thank you so much for your insights. It's a pleasure to meet you. Thank you.
[670.46-699.63]  Our understanding of the universe has changed dramatically because scientists have been willing to ask questions that once seemed impossible to answer. And part of human development, of course, is not only learning from the answers we might glean, but figuring out new ways to ask those questions. So I want to bring together two people who spend their lives asking those questions and as a journalist that's near and dear to my heart because I also do that. Meredith Hughes and Amir Saraj.
[705.62-731.38]  a little closer to you guys. You got cozy here in the lounge. Okay, so Meredith, let me start with you. You research planet formation, you observe, I was reading about your bio, it's incredible, you observe gas and dust around young stars using giant radio telescopes. When you spend your life studying the universe, you sort of become aware of how little we actually know. It must be very humbling.
[731.38-739.76]  What is the question in your research that you find yourself coming back to time and time again? That's sort of the holy grail of what you're working on right now.
[739.76-761.94]  Yeah, I think there are really two kinds of questions in science, and both of them are exciting in different ways. One type of question is, what do we know that we don't know? So the work that I do on planet formation, I feel like I've been really lucky to grow up in an era of a lot of discoveries related to planet formation. When I was young, we didn't actually know for sure that there were planets around other stars. The first...
[761.94-791.25]  the first planets were discovered when I was a child. And then by the time I was in college, we had transiting planets and we could study their atmospheres and their weather. And then by the time I finished my PhD, we knew that there were more planets than stars in the Milky Way galaxy. And I have been fortunate to be part of teams that have made discoveries related to imaging some of the first structures where we can actually see the impact of planets forming in their natal disks of gas and dust around young stars. So I think some of the questions there that are really exciting to me that we know we don't know the answer.
[791.25-805.49]  We now know that planets are everywhere in our galaxy and we have an incredible diversity of planets. We found planets around dead stars. We found planets around two stars. We found lava worlds. We found water worlds. We know that there's this dizzying array of
[805.49-830.58]  places and types of planets in the universe, but we don't actually know yet how special our planet is and whether there's life on other planets. And I think that's something that we, it's a very human thing to want to know, right? Are we alone in the universe? What else is out there? And it's something that we have a very real possibility of answering in our lifetimes or our children's lifetimes. On the other hand, there are the questions. The ones that are possibly even more exciting are
[830.58-842.21]  What types of things do we not know that we don't know? And that's where I think basic science really excels. We can think about doing basic science is an exercise in human curiosity.
[842.21-861.55]  And, you know, you can kind of go back through the history of science and say, like, well, we thought we understood gravity after Newton, right? We had Newton's universal law of gravitation. It did an amazing job. And then Einstein came along and said, actually, it's warped in the fabric of space time. I mean, who saw that coming, right? And so I think the exciting thing that I'm looking forward to in space science is
[861.55-889.36]  What don't we know that we don't know? And giving people the freedom to explore and exert their curiosity and look at the night sky and the natural world, that's what's going to lead to those breakthroughs. Amazing. When you said, you know, when you were a child, we only knew of a few planets, I thought, you seem like the kind of person that knew from a very young age that this is what you wanted to study. Like, that's it, planet formation, I'm in. I want to put a pin in something you said and come back to that, but a mirror.
[889.36-918.72]  I want to turn to you. Most people assume that we've sort of finished mapping the solar system. You study sort of deep outer space and you've been part of the search for a planet that no one has ever actually seen. Is that correct? This is planet why? That's right. Okay. It's deep out there in the solar system. So what would you say are the biggest barriers right now to learning more and actually seeing a planet like that? It's an excellent question and it's somewhat counterintuitive given what we just heard from
[918.72-939.23]  Meredith about the fact that we have discovered thousands of planets around other stars, what makes it difficult to see in our own solar system is the fact that we only have one light source. We have the sun, and you can think of the sun as a street lamp. We're basically located pretty close to the street lamp, trying to look very far down the street.
[939.23-968.18]  as opposed to seeing planets around other stars, sometimes we can detect them because they pass in front of their own street lamps. If you see another street lamp dimming, you can infer that something went in front of it. Today is actually a very special day in the history of the solar system because the most distant planet from the sun in our own solar system, Neptune, was discovered 180 years ago today.
[968.18-997.36]  It wasn't discovered from a blind search. In fact, people noticed that the motion of Uranus implied that there was another body out there. And then scientists searched and found Neptune. And today, the hints are far subtler. And we're not sure if there is another planet in the outer solar system. But there are some early clues from the orbits of these small icy bodies, like asteroids and comets.
[997.36-1026.50]  that go out into the very distant solar system and then come back closer to us. And we also live at a very fortunate time because there's a new observatory called the Verra Sea Rubin Observatory that's been in the works for 20 years. And it has the world's largest digital camera attached to it. And it is just starting to take data in Chile. And this observatory has the capability of finding
[1026.50-1056.16]  a planet if it exists in our outer solar system. So that leads me to my next question. I was going to ask the both of you. What do you think is the most innovative or advanced technology that you are using right now or could possibly have access to in the near future that you think is going to sort of change the equation for what you're researching? Yeah. I think it might start with A and end with I, but I'm going to let you answer. Yeah. Well, there's so many ways to answer this.
[1056.16-1084.75]  For one, what's so special about the Vera Rubin Observatory and the survey that they're running on it, called LSST, is that it has a remarkably large field of view. So most telescopes have very small fields of view, but are able to see things to high precision and at very large distances. LSST is able to see things very far away, but also
[1085.07-1114.78]  marry that with a huge field of view. As a result, it's going to survey the entire night sky every three nights. So over the course of 10 years, it will produce the deepest movie we've ever seen of the universe. And as a result of this mode of operation, astronomers don't have to propose to the telescope asking for time for particular programs. And so as a result, I think we're going to see a huge amount of discovery.
[1114.78-1142.67]  And particularly to Meredith's second point, I think there will be a lot of serendipitous discoveries because there will be this fire hose of data. In fact, it's expected that every night there will be 10 million alerts of, you know, things in the night sky that are changing in brightness. And, you know, I would put money on many new classes of astrophysical objects and transients and phenomena that are going to be discovered by LSST.
[1142.67-1172.38]  There's also a new observatory coming online, a new space telescope called the Roman Space Telescope. And this is very exciting because it's going to tell us about the distant reaches of other planetary systems and also free-floating planets, planets with no apparent host star. So that's just launched on August 30th and it's moving on its way to L2. And then I will touch on AI.
[1172.38-1200.62]  we're already seeing that it can make scientific researchers far more productive, particularly with the case of code development. And I'm very interested to see how the scientific enterprise evolves going forward and benefits from AI. Of course, there's also the flip side, which is it makes it difficult to train students because in order to gain the intuition that it takes to be a good researcher, you really have to
[1200.62-1229.97]  be able to sit with problems and be confused. I think that's very important as a scientist to be comfortable with being confused and not knowing the answer and striving towards and understanding. Because that makes you a better scientist. That makes you a scientist full stop. And with code generation, of course, there are incredible developments happening there. But when something goes wrong with AI-generated code and an application like space exploration,
[1229.97-1253.22]  catastrophic potentially. So the consequences are much higher for that sort of thing. I'll turn back to you, Meredith. What do you think is the most impressive or consequential technology similarly that you're using in your research that could change your field? Yeah. So I'm a radio astronomer, which means I look at light that we can't see with our eyes. I look at the same light that makes our radio and our Wi-Fi work.
[1253.22-1282.51]  And in that space, I think there are a lot of really exciting developments. So the telescope that I use is called the Otokama Large Millimeter Submillimeter Array. It's located in Northern Chile. And right now, scientists around the world are involved in a program, a planning process for what we're calling ALMA 2040, which is going to be the next stage of that facility. At the same time, the other telescope that I'm using right now is the very large array in New Mexico. If you've ever seen the movie Contact, you're probably familiar with lots of dishes. Jodi Foster discovers aliens. It's a great movie.
[1282.51-1311.73]  And so that one is also in the process of developing into its next generation, they're calling it the next generation very large array. And another international project is the square kilometer array. Now the exciting things that these types of facilities can do for us is, first of all, they are providing a lot of collecting area. As the name of the square kilometer array implies, it's going to have a square kilometer of collecting area, which is going to make us sensitive to signals that we could never have seen before. The other thing that ALMA 2040 and the NGVLA project are working on.
[1311.73-1321.47]  is they're working on making basically continent scale observatories. When we look at things in space, the level of detail that we can see depends on how large our telescope is.
[1321.47-1350.96]  So the dishes at the very large array are very impressive. They're huge. They're house-sized. But when you imagine spreading them over a continent from Hawaii to the Virgin Islands, our ability to see small structures and find details in outer space increases exponentially. And so I'm very excited about that ability to see little details. Now, all the 2040, I think there, that telescope is focused on a region of the electromagnetic spectrum where we can see small molecules. And what's really exciting in that part of the spectrum
[1350.96-1380.18]  is small molecules are the building blocks of life. And we are discovering more and more molecules in outer space that actually contribute to the kind of chemical soup that we need to have life on Earth. And we're finding them not only in the places where stars are forming, but now in the places where planets are forming. And we're actually able to see molecular signatures around forming planets in the disk. So we're actually starting to trace down to those scales where we'll be able to see the precursors of life as the planets are forming and evolving in the disks. So those are all things.
[1380.18-1388.59]  I'm really excited about. I'm also excited about AI. I have the same sort of cautious approach that Amir articulated where I think that
[1388.59-1417.87]  It's, you know, we've been talking about this at Wesleyan and one of my colleagues just gave a presentation on AI where she talked about how it amplifies expertise but can stunt novices. And so I think, as I'm nervous saying, I really, I think we're figuring out how to best use AI in education. Students need to learn to use these new tools. They're incredibly powerful. And we need to figure out how they can develop their capacity for judgment, keep their curiosity, keep their imagination while learning to use these extremely powerful tools.
[1417.87-1441.50]  questions, yes, absolutely. There's so much incredible innovation, just based on what you're saying right now, happening in space these days. And I think in general, there's a lot of interest in it right now. Particularly here in the United States, there's been a lot of private investment in space exploration and space technology in recent years. There's now a huge conversation about data centers in space.
[1441.50-1459.66]  I think a lot of people who maybe don't tend to have that natural curiosity towards space might say, but we've got so many problems here on Earth, right? Why would we focus so much on space? What would your response be to someone who sort of brings that, and maybe it's on a totally fair dichotomy, but brings that up.
[1459.66-1489.23]  So I'll start. I think that one of the important roles that astronomy has to play in our civilization is we like to talk about astronomy as a gateway science. And by that, I mean that it's an entry point. It's a comfortable, open, welcoming entry point for people who maybe feel intimidated by science, maybe feel like they don't have what it takes to be a scientist. I think there's this universal human experience that we all have of looking up at the night sky and marveling and wondering.
[1489.23-1512.56]  And so when people come to our observatory at Wesleyan for our public programs, we get people of all ages from all walks of life coming through our doors to look through our telescopes and sit in our planetarium. And so I think really what astronomy has to offer is it sparks curiosity. It motivates people to learn about science and it brings people together for the process of discovery. I think also facilities like
[1512.56-1541.84]  ALMA, the telescope that I use for my research. I already mentioned it's a very multinational effort. It includes partnerships from dozens of countries in Europe, North America, East Asia, South America. And anybody around the world, anybody in this room could write a proposal to this telescope. And if you can convince a bunch of scientists that your idea is really exciting and we should be doing it, you would get time on the telescope. And so I think some of these various models for international collaboration, the Ruben Observatory that Amir was talking about has a model where they
[1541.84-1571.06]  say anybody who can come in and help us develop the capability like the software capability to process the data from this telescope can get data right access. So I think astronomy also gives us models of how to do international collaboration. It's something that we we care a lot about as a field. Astronomy also has this amazing impact I think in the sense that it gives us the sense that we are part of something larger than ourselves and that a lot of the divisions that we create as humans are artificial. I mean we share one planet right we share
[1571.06-1598.98]  one night sky, we share one moon, and that's why I think the work that policymakers do here at the UN and elsewhere to think about how we can protect and regulate and balance the competing needs, the need for technological and economic development, along with the need to keep access to science and keep people wondering, to keep dark and quiet skies, to keep that access to the night sky that we've all had for generations. And so we all have a spirit of collaboration as well. I want to give a mere time to answer because we have just a
[1598.98-1627.44]  half a minute or so left, but I'd love to hear from you. Yeah, echoing everything Meredith said, I'm totally on the same page. And I'll just add to that, that there are so many investments in the natural sciences end up paying off enormously. They always pay off over longtime skills. In fact, it's one of the great drivers of human progress. One small example is GPS, right? GPS wouldn't...
[1627.44-1657.33]  work if we didn't make corrections for Einstein's theory of general relativity. There are so many examples of innovations that have come out of even space science, specifically Wi-Fi, microwaves, et cetera. And those kinds of breakthroughs come out of research that is, by its very nature, open-ended. And so we see time and time again. That's how the biggest
[1657.33-1683.71]  biggest discoveries are made. And I'll also add that astronomy and astrophysics are very human. They respond to very human questions about why are we here? How did we get here? What's our relationship to the rest of the universe? Almost existential questions about humanity. And I think that plays a deep, deep role in
[1683.71-1713.63]  our understanding of ourselves. And I think that's part of the reason why the public is so deeply engaged with astronomy, not just because it's a science, not just because it's exciting, but because it actually tugs at our core of what does it mean to be human. And I think that's why things like the Space Race and other great events in history have resonated so deeply with people. So I think there's a practical aspect to it. All these wonderful innovations come out of
[1713.63-1741.25]  come out of the study of space, but it's also, I think, one of the most important things we can do as humans for humanity. Thank you so much both for your insightful answers. It's been pleasure speaking with you. Thank you. Okay, so we've just heard about some really incredible innovations, and I think what's striking about a lot of them is that they rarely happen in isolation.
[1741.25-1770.82]  Every time we learn something new about the universe or about the world around us, it can change the way we think about what is possible. But history also reminds us technological progress doesn't always unfold exactly as we imagine it. So perhaps the question isn't only what can we discover or what can we build. It's also how we turn innovation and discovery into progress. What kind of future we actually want to build with those technologies.
[1770.82-1800.00]  This brings me to Stanley Kim, who is a scientist and innovator working at the intersection of technology and human potential. And Victoria De Leon is a robotics researcher and engineer. Victoria, Stanley, welcome to the stage. So Victoria, let me start with you. Your work brings together a lot of different fields. Robotics, biomimetic materials, intelligence, sensing. You basically take...
[1800.00-1828.91]  inspiration from nature and apply it to technology. So this is a very broad question, but what does nature teach us? What's the most important thing nature is teaching us right now about how we should be designing the technologies of the future? Well, nature is humbling, right? Because we're talking about millions of years of evolution, natural selection of trial and error from the most simple being to what we have today that are humans.
[1828.91-1854.69]  beings that are capable of being conscious, finalizing the world and looking at themselves at the mirror and saying, I am. And everything started with very simple things. So nature teaches us strategies for optimizing pathways to develop complex things. And there's a lot to learn from that at the material level, at the behavioral level, and other aspects. I'm going to give you an example. I'll end.
[1854.69-1875.07]  We have roboticists to say, I want to make robots that behave like ants. And they are like, eh, must be simple. You have an ant that has six legs and it's moving. I can imitate that. And then you see that even trying to replicate the locomotion itself, it's a whole field in development. The articulation and gears and everything it is. Exactly. Yeah. And we only talk about movement.
[1875.07-1903.06]  Let's think about how they collaborate between themselves, how they build their strategies for construction, how they can carry weight that is, I think, six or seven times bigger than their own weight. They are wonderful beings, and this is just one example I gave you, the answer. We have trees that have networks on their ground that are communicating chemically. We're talking about a language that is chemical and not the type of language we have right here. It's my ceiling. So nature teaches us
[1903.06-1932.14]  all these strategies that relate to how to solve problems efficiently and all within ecological limits. This is concept of circularity that is present in nature. Everything that is developed returns to the cycle and gives way to new forms of expression living beings. We as humans, we are not following these patterns. We have a linear structure of economy. That's what we have. We're transitioning towards a value economy, not fast enough, where we develop and then we throw stuff away. And we are very, very consumptive.
[1932.14-1956.46]  Nature teaches us to create, having, as a consciousness, how it impacts the system itself. So I think we can use that for building technology. With the technology that you're building, how do you decide when to apply a sort of organic type approach to building versus something that maybe is better served through what you might call math base or algorithmic or, you know,
[1956.56-1983.20]  bits and atoms and I asked this but I recently worked on a story for Wired about biological computing and researchers who are taking the neural patterns of wrap brains and putting them on custom silicon and then actually using that to train AI models and sort of exploring whether or not that kind of neural pattern which is very not just the way our brains work is actually a better way to create artificial intelligence models than using math right but that's a
[1983.20-2010.58]  It's a decision to sort of go in that direction of mimicking nature with what you're building. How do you decide which approach to take? Yeah, I think biomimicry is a very big field because you can reference nature in multiple ways. For example, design. You can design pathways that are bio-inspired and whatever thing there was. I think it was a project in Japan where they were building cities based on mold patterns, so finding the most efficient route for nutrient sourcing. So that's design.
[2010.58-2037.97]  You can also get inspired on nature's materials to have biopolymers, biomaterials that are biodegradable and you implement them, or the integration of both. But I think the main key here is efficiency. What's the best option based on certain parameters that we defined for our designs? And curiously, when you use nature as a reference, sometimes that's the best pathway. So it's, of course, doing it in a way that benefits the advancement of our technology. It's not biomechanically just for the sake of it, right?
[2038.51-2058.74]  Stanley, I want to ask you a similar version of that question. You're very focused on human-centric design, putting humans at the middle of what you're building, and how basically the technology we use changes us, altars, augments us, right? How do you decide, when you're making design decisions, how are...
[2058.74-2087.57]  What's your framework for thinking about how to put humans at the center? I always work with people that are really, really smart, like they hurt herself, and so I'm not the person that actually designs most of this stuff, but I've always worked with some amazing people. So I was mentioning that I helped facilitate this. I helped facilitate it, but actually I've worked with some of the leading experts, a lot of Nobel laureates, and some amazing people. So AI, another word for AI is neural networks or competition, neuroscience. So competition or neuroscience is really taking with how the brain process information. So the two companies that we developed were, one was,
[2087.57-2117.46]  really about how people hear and you have to hear my voice versus the echo behind me. And that's because you have two different ears and just literally AI mimics how the brain process information. The second company was just based off of pattern recognition of faces or facial expressions. And so just seeing how you're very happy or sad and then they took that and made it into obviously face ID. But I mean the ability to go ahead and capture expressions became the ability to go and capture
[2117.46-2131.07]  images and how you tell a pillow versus versus a person versus the wall it says. It's all based on how the human body or actually how the human body actually captures information and processes information.
[2131.07-2158.16]  And Face ID, for those who don't know, Stanley worked at a company called Emotion. Emotion, yes. Which was Emotion. And so it was the machine learning behind Face ID. It was fired by Apple. And so basically any time we hold up our phones now and our faces are on. And then the noise cancelling on most of the other cell phones, which was by Qualcomm. But again, it's really based off of how people process different kinds of information, whether it's hearing or visual.
[2158.16-2185.22]  And in one of the AI panels earlier in the AI and human development section, one of the panelists basically suggested that we should think about AI as augmented intelligence because of the way it actually is augmenting us. And both of the technologies, the categories of technology, are describing here really augment the human experience in some way. So what do you think is sort of the most
[2185.22-2211.46]  impactful version of those innovations that you've seen or worked on. They're kind of augmenting the human experience. The first thing is not substitution. Not substitution. Of human salimental qualities. We're talking about creativity but also making mistakes. So for me a picture of augmentation would look like. What kind of areas does the human being have?
[2211.46-2239.98]  where the flaws are reflected and how does this technology allow that human to express it to its maximum capacity. So technologies that are personalized and recognized traits that are human and allow people to express themselves better like tools for individual expression. We can see that in creativity. Not an AI that does what you wanted to do but allows you to have more tools to express meaning and also for example in areas like academia or research this looks like
[2239.98-2268.91]  Pathways or guidelines for researchers to make better science. So that's how it looks for me. For me, AI is almost really stupid because it really does one process at a time. It just does it so much faster than humans. The consciousness of humans is amazing. You can do so many different things that machines will never be able to do. They may one day, but it's a while. But they do it so much faster.
[2268.91-2298.61]  And it remembers information and it never forgets. And so it's just much more accelerated. So I'm not sure if it's augmented, accelerated, or steroids. I mean, whatever you want to call it. It's definitely that plus a lot more. I want to ask you more about that. And feel free to push back if you don't think it's really augmented. It's another word for it. Yeah. And so what makes it so-called stupid? Well, at least today, if you think about it,
[2298.61-2324.38]  the process that does, it does one thing that humans do, literally one thing that humans do, or 10 things that humans do, but it doesn't do everything that humans do. Humans can do so much. Just moving your hands. Now we're working biology. The company I work in now is Regenering Nurse. That process is so complex, and machines...
[2324.38-2352.22]  Today can't do that right like if you ever see robotic session move hands like it's very still very very clunky right and it's getting better But it's still clunky and but for to do everything that humans do or so they have robots that do this And they have robots that do this they've robots who do this but once it becomes all combined it becomes a human then and and thinks like a human then that's a that's a very different world so right
[2352.22-2378.85]  How are you both thinking about the safety of using AI and robotics right now and those becoming that much more advanced? I mean, it sounds like you're not super concerned at the moment because... Oh, I'm scared. What are you scared of? Talk about that. It's just the possibilities of what robots could do because once you actually let it lose and it starts thinking for itself and you're starting to see some of this. It's really changing. It's actually behaving in ways that were unpredictable.
[2378.85-2406.83]  I think that's the scariest part. It's the unpredictability of what they're doing and how they're doing it. And so that would scare the hell out of me, because you can't control it. And so they're going to try and put humans above it. But they've tried that already. And robots or the AI has actually tried to get around it. And that would scare the hell out of me. And so you didn't amplify that. You can amplify or augment that. You've got 10,000 or 10 million of these machines that are actually thinking for itself, eventually.
[2406.93-2436.43]  what happens, that scares me. That doesn't mean that we won't overcome that, right? Because you can't eventually go in a direction that you work with robots, that we work with robots, but the unpredictably of what you can do, what you can't do, that scares me a lot of me. I don't know what scares you. I'm super scared, yeah, definitely, because for machines to get good at their jobs, they need a lot of data. But how is this data extracted and where from?
[2436.43-2463.86]  And how are we preventing biases? And I'm scared both at the mental level and at the physical level. What do I mean with this? At the mental level, how people behave? Are we designing models that make people sharing formation through a relational process? For example, people start to converse with chatbots as if they were their friends and they start to trust things that are not okay because they don't follow safety issues.
[2464.05-2490.58]  What kind of extractive procedures are getting this to work? That's the main thing. But the physical level too, okay, we want to have an embodiment of this AI through robotics. How are we going to train these robots to behave in the natural world in a way that is similar to humans? I saw this example where they were training cleaning ladies in certain regions in India with a camera here to observe how they do these movements and trade the model with this.
[2490.58-2519.42]  This in households where there are babies, where there are people, when there are serious privacy issues and this applies to other aspects. So what concerns me more than the capabilities of robots or the AI is going to obtain is how we're gathering this data and what considerations are taking into account. And usually we have this thirst, this hunger for data that we're not having enough regulation on how to extract this information. So we really need more regulation on that.
[2519.42-2546.83]  So much of the data that is now informing AI has either been sort of willingly handed over by all of us as users of the internet, whether we all realize that they're not. Some of it is just being taken without consent. There's obviously synthetic data, models could be training models eventually. And so I think you're right in that figuring out sort of the data sets and the inherent rights to using that is a very important part of this.
[2546.83-2576.18]  What you're also describing is not just kind of a fear of, like you mentioned, that juxtaposition of robots in a home with children or babies, but economic incentives behind them as well, just essentially disrupting workforces with robots. But I don't trust people all the time either, so. Fair enough, yes. And so what is making you most optimistic or hopeful around creating incredibly advanced technology, some of which are powered by artificial intelligence right now?
[2576.53-2606.46]  So in my field, in my new field, in pharmaceuticals, right now everything's, we develop drugs based off of affected cause and effect, right? And so we look at cascades and, you know, what we're gonna see in the future, we're gonna see 10, 15th level, you know, things that we, humans can't see. Like, it's gonna be like, you know, the butterfly effect. What, well, if you do this, what will happen to this? You'll be able to see things that are like 10, you know, 10 orders away.
[2606.46-2638.16]  like this safety and efficacy and it's gonna be phenomenal. I think there's gonna be some great things that come out from the biology part of it. And that excites me. At least from AI, right? I mean, what excites me is a future where we use AI for applications where humans cannot do this. Like for example, not human replacement, but human augmentation through models that are capable of predicting things with all these data.
[2638.48-2665.06]  Let's give an example, a climate crisis. If we want to predict a hurricane, for example, an AI will be better than this because of its capability to process huge amounts of information. So using this for climate change applications, for prediction of danger, even models where a meteorite could strike or something, we can use AI to be better at predicting things, and that's for the good of our humanity. So that's a future.
[2665.06-2693.58]  I really look for like a super calculator application where we give this empowerment of predicting things for a better future, but not replacement. That's not a future I would like for AI. Humans are precious beings that are creative that relate to each other in amazing ways. And if AI is substituting this instead of enhancing it, I don't want to live in that future. Need it for my children, my garden children, anyone? Yeah. I think that's a great.
[2693.58-2710.10]  and on and I would feel very confident with the future that's being built by the both of you. So thank you. Thank you for your insights and thank you everybody. Thank you so much everybody for joining us in this session with the goals lounge.
