UNREVIEWED MACHINE TRANSCRIPTION of the English audio/interpretation track. Not an official UN record. Speaker identities are not inferred. Verify against the recording. QUALITY REVIEW REQUIRED: 2 cues have low-confidence or repetitive-text indicators.
https://webtv.un.org/en/asset/k14/k14ne6ofe3

[54.35-80.74]  I'm John Gilroy and the Chief of Service with the UN Office for Partnerships. Good afternoon and a very warm welcome to the Gold's Lounge. This lounge was created based on the belief that meaningful progress begins with meaningful communication. The Gold's Lounge is somewhere we can speak openly, listen carefully and hopefully build the partnerships that turn shared ambitions into action. The current Ebola outbreak is showing us yet again and with devastating clarity.
[80.74-110.06]  that we cannot wait for a health emergency to become a global crisis before we act. It has demonstrated the importance of preparedness, early action and trusted communication at every level. It has also reminded us that the consequences of delay are measured not only in lives and livelihoods, but in the trust people place in institutions and in one another. The commitments made by Member States at today's high level meeting provide an important foundation. Our task now is to translate them into stronger systems,
[110.06-140.37]  Sustainable financing and capabilities that can be activated quickly. No country, institution or sector can do this alone. Preparedness depends on partnership. And that brings me to our partners here today. I warmly thank the friends of the high level meeting for pandemic preparedness and response and the permanent mission of Finland who have helped make today's event possible. We are deeply grateful for your leadership, your collaboration and your commitment. Thank you also to our speakers and to all of you here and online for joining us.
[140.37-193.46]  We will now roll a short video to frame today's conversation as I welcome our moderator and speakers for this afternoon. Our moderator Helen Clark needs no introduction but I'll give one anyway. As the former Prime Minister of New Zealand, former UNDP Administrator, co-chair of the independent panel for the pandemic preparedness and response and a member of the elders. So here we go, enjoy.
[193.46-221.28]  The outbreak is the fastest growing Ebola epidemic on record. It is growing faster and wider than the response to contain it. But it can be stopped. We know how to contain Ebola, how to interrupt transmission, and how to save lives. But we must also overcome another virus. The virus have been different. Because international attention, political focus, and resources
[221.28-262.77]  are still lagging behind the reality unfolding on the ground. It's time to summon the collective determination to act before the cost becomes more deadly, more difficult and more expensive. Welcome everyone to this event. What next in the quest to protect people from health emergencies and pandemics? And can I welcome our first panel to the stage, the Deputy Director General of Africa CDC.
[262.77-283.25]  Mr. Chagger Gain, the CEO and Secretary-General of the International Federation of the Red Cross, and Gemma Comel, who is Director of Cross's Response at Otcher. Well, the opening video brought it home, didn't it? We're not here in a sort of abstract quest at a high-level meeting.
[283.25-309.10]  We are meeting when yet another very deadly disease outbreak is occurring. It's occurring in the eastern DRC. It has a death rate currently of around 48%. If you are affected in that community, it doesn't matter whether it's called a pandemic, an epidemic, or an outbreak, it's hurting you and your family and you may not survive. So it really brings it home. So our first...
[309.10-333.41]  panel, then, because we've reversed order a little. We're very flexible. We will see Dr. Tedros shortly. But the Africa CDC, of course, playing a critical role in the response. And I think it'd be tremendous to hear from you, Deputy Director General, what are you hearing from the ground in Democratic Republic of Congo right now?
[333.41-355.79]  Where are the critical gaps in the response? And what do you need from the international community, including out of this high-level meeting? Thank you. Thank you so much, Ellen. And thank you for inviting African cities to be part of this discussion. Really, a pleasure to be here. And this discussion will not be timely more than this.
[355.79-383.34]  So let me start by saying that as a continental, public health agency, one of the tasks before Africa CDC is to safeguard the security and sovereignty of the 1.5 billion people on the content of Africa, 55 member states. Now, let's go back to DR. Congo. This is an outbreak that was declared a public health emergency of continental security in mid-May.
[383.34-413.87]  A day after it was declared publicly about this of international concern by WHO, meaning the African cities and WHO were all aligned. That is a critical issue. Now, what are we seeing on the ground? Let me start from the positive side before going to the negative. When this outbreak started, the epicenter was in a jury from the not-kibble, start-kibble. So today, we are talking about seven provinces that have been affected.
[413.87-442.98]  around the 63 episodes, you know, as far as the geographical spread of the outbreak is a concern. So, where the outbreak started from does it truly? We've seen some improvement. Let me put it that way. But, too early to really, you know, begin to say whether we're bending the cough or not. In fact, it doesn't arise now because we should have issues, you know, in other places. Now, I haven't said that.
[442.98-470.91]  We continue to have issues with access to medical contaminants, talking of vaccines, therapeutics, diagnostics, those personal protective equipment. We've shift tons of these supplies, but we still have a critical gap as far as spaces are concerned. Number two is around community engagement. Community trust is still a big issue.
[470.91-498.02]  because I'm talking to you, we see half pockets of attacks every day, you know, which is making the whole response quite and difficult in certain areas. For some of all, I know these are going to go very well. We know that this is an area where close to 40 years now, there has been issue of unrest. I wouldn't say that there is no government presence there, but what I think government is able to control.
[498.02-527.58]  What is happening in that space? That is another question, you know. And that lack of trust from the community alongside the armed conflict that is doing not in that place is making the response in that area very, very difficult, you know. The testing we have seen or challenge is around financing. So many pledges have been made. So much money has been pledged. But what it's lacking is disbursement.
[527.58-551.41]  As of mid-September and 16-17, based on the financial, I mean, the truck I was put together by Africa series on WHO, only 50% of what was pledged has been disposed. You know, and even the disposement, implementation is also a big issue, because one thing to dispose is another thing for the partners of the two.
[551.41-578.99]  implement what the money is made to do. So that is also another issue. The third, I mean, the fourth concern is the continuity of essential services. Ebola will not stop malaria. It will not stop the area. It will not stop mother from giving birth. But now because of the concern of the Ebola.
[578.99-607.87]  you know, most of the communities are actually afraid to go to the PXC centers, you know, and it's like the essential SMEs have been deprioritized sort of, you know. So again, we need to avoid what we saw in West Africa, whereby we lost over 11,000 people as a result of Ebola, but much more than that number died as a result of lack of access to those essential health services. You know, in part of the last, I mean,
[607.87-637.20]  Last assessment by Africa CDC, we begin to see close to 7, for example, increase in maternal mortality in some of the communities there. You know, again, this is one thing we need to avoid, you know. So we just need to find a way to ensure that it's continuous of essential services. And we believe that if we begin to even look at that alone, making those services free, it might perhaps even increase the level of community trust, because they are not seeing us coming just for Ebola.
[637.20-666.56]  Mayweather has been killing for years. Nobody's paying attention. So I think this is also one area. The other thing is surveillance. Surveillance, let me use that example of the contact tracing. So today we're talking of 85%, but we know that if you all pack that figure very well, you're actually not closer to 85%. Because we know that for every Ebola case, you need
[666.56-692.75]  in terms of contact listing. You should be listing around 50 or 60 or they are about. So today we are talking about listing around 10, 15. So the 85% is of the 25% that I will have been able to list. So it's not surprising then that we begin to see a lot of community death. So many that were so many children on the chain that we have not been able to identify.
[692.75-716.90]  You know, so again, I think these are some of the challenges and the owners on us as a continent of public health institution, work with WHO, what with all partners is to come up with an engineered way of trying to address these challenges. You know, and for partners in the room, most of them have strong presence in East India and Congo. We're talking of Iran, close to 30 partners around the table.
[716.90-745.14]  through the African CDC WHO coordination platform. So how do we put our heads together to address this issue? Already is a second fastest growing Ebola, I mean, is a fastest, not even a second, fastest. But in terms of number is a second on the continent. So if we do not address this issue, we don't want to get to where we go to in West Africa, where we begin to see cops on the streets. So the time to actually act is now.
[745.14-766.34]  No, sobering words and coordination, obviously incredibly important. Jagan Choppergan, the Deputy Director, referred to the issue of trust. This is clearly an issue at the epicenter, if I could put it that way, of where this outbreak is now.
[766.34-795.17]  Your Federation has members working at the very cold face, shall we say. Would you like to comment around the seriousness of this challenge? And can you actually build trust in the middle of something like this? Prime Minister, thank you. Thank you so much. And thank you for inviting us here. Actually, that's where I wanted to start the conversation. Ebola crisis is not only health crisis, it's also a trust crisis.
[795.17-825.74]  If we look at what happened when the Ebola were in peak number of times, even when I have started working in Geneva, I have been part of responding to Ebola crisis number of times already now. Everybody comes when the Ebola is there, things go down, everybody goes away. And as you highlighted, of course, the community feels that you suddenly pay attention to when you feel that the Ebola will come to kill you. Until then.
[825.74-853.65]  You don't care. So you don't really care about us. You don't really care about DRC. You only care when you are afraid that it might cross the border reaching you. I'm being very cool because this is what people tell us on the ground exactly in doing sports. You don't care if we die of malaria. You don't care if we die of malnutrition. You care because it is going to hit you. And this is something...
[853.65-883.65]  fundamental shores of mistrust. Second thing people tell us also is that suddenly you all are very interested because you have found a way to close some of your funding gaps because suddenly the donors are interested because it is Ebola. So we also have to be very honest about those issues. And third thing is, since last Ebola, some of the community surveillance you talked about, it was under-invested.
[883.65-909.62]  Let's be very honest, for two months we did not know and unfortunately a few of our volunteers got contracted during that two months and they died of Ebola and we didn't even know that they had actually contracted Ebola. So these are some of the fundamental things. So somehow seeing this as epidemic, pandemic, whatever we call it, as you said Prime Minister, is a big mistake. It's part of a much broader
[909.62-932.96]  issue that is there in DRC. And if we don't have the political cutters to call it the way it is, you know, after a few years we will be talking about exactly the same thing. Yeah. Reminds me a little of some of the response to COVID. When countries around the world went into lockdown and then some of the low-income countries you saw these interviews with people saying look...
[932.96-962.32]  We're going to die of hunger around here before we die of covert. So I can understand that what you're reporting here. Gemma from Ofcha. Obviously you endeavor to coordinate across agencies in many complex environments and this is one of the most complex. How from your point of view is the coordination working in DRC and beyond at the moment around this outbreak?
[962.38-971.81]  Thank you so much Helen and I think to kick off on the point of what we call it before the Ebola outbreak, DRC was a humanitarian crisis.
[971.81-993.06]  And whereas the deputy director referred to, we have well over 100 armed groups operating. We have people who are at risk every single day, not just of death, but also of sexual violence, of hunger, of displacement, and so many other things. And so for us, as Jagan said, when this began,
[993.06-1019.84]  And when we then understood the trajectory of the outbreak, it was looking at how do we respond not just to the disease, but to the crisis that predated the disease. Because again, as Yagan said, communities also care, Helen, you just touched on it with COVID. Don't bring me a vaccine if you're not bringing me food. Don't bring me the health center that can only deal with Ebola if I need to give birth. And so for us, the big challenge has been how do we
[1019.84-1037.36]  in parallel to supporting the incredible public health response that is happening, mobilize the overall humanitarian response that needs to carry alongside that and is equally important because if that humanitarian response is not at scale, the community mistrust grows.
[1037.36-1066.00]  the needs become, in many respects, uncontrollable, but also critical needs are unmet that can also lead to death and suffering. So from our side, what we've done is following the lead of our public health colleagues in the Interagency Standing Committee. It brings together the biggest aid agencies in the world. In early June, they declared what we call a scale up. And what that means is we mobilize everything we have to try and bring it to bear to this crisis.
[1066.00-1092.98]  has been a very interesting tango of putting that scale up in motion alongside the public health response in a way that means that the two are functioning in synchronicity in tandem to tackle people's needs telling. Fantastic. So a sort of quick fire from each of you. What is the one thing you would like to see fixed before the next outbreak?
[1092.98-1122.02]  You know, pandemic threats are inevitable. Disease outbreak threats are inevitable. They don't need to become sustained outbreaks, epidemics, pandemics. But to fix that, what would you say is the most critical thing? And what would have made your job fundamentally different in this respect? Deputy Director General. Thank you. Thank you, Ellen. I think we all know what to do, if what it is, I think it's just the will.
[1122.02-1151.44]  and the commitment to doing that is what is lacking. So, when this outbreak started, I mean, we knew DR Congo, Uganda, where the first two countries were reporting cases. So, our efficacy was to quickly check on all those border countries, the so-called at-risk member states. You know, and we did what we call operational assessment, you know, in terms of the readiness to show this Ebola spread into that country.
[1151.44-1180.74]  So, we need to really strengthen preparedness in those members of it. And when we talk of preparedness, we're talking of the national systems, you know, we need to find a way to strengthen that, so that the first point of call is a national system before even search capacity from the surrounding member states. Number two is workforce, preposition workforce, in such a way that from day one, you are able to deploy, you know. The third one is
[1180.74-1206.83]  access to medical contact measures, preposition as well, the therapeutics, the diagnostics, you know, the vaccines, the PPEs, you know, we need to preposition them. Community engagement, critical. We've said it's time and time over in West Africa, it was the same issue, marble the same issue, but I think it's at time we begin to invest in community engagement.
[1206.83-1235.87]  training people, you know, because it's difficult to beat trust when the outbreak is already setting. It's something that you need to really do well ahead of time. Financing is also quite important. Pandemic fund is already doing a lot of work around preparedness, but we need 10 times agencies like Pandemic Fund to really address at least an issue. Then, of course, essential services, primary health care. You know, the same primary health care that will pick
[1235.87-1264.91]  the outbreak before it becomes epidemic and pandemic. It's also the same primary healthcare that will respond to the day to the needs of the community. You know, so we need a resilient primary healthcare, you know, resilient in terms of climate, resilient in terms of disease outbreak, you know, unsustainable financing. Coordination is critical. You know, there are so many partners without coordination. We are not going to make any headways. Then regional mechanism is also critical.
[1264.91-1287.33]  We cannot see it in Geneva or New York and the time of war happened in the Archimbo. The best place to coordinate whatever we are going to support these countries should be the regional mechanism. And this is where Africa see this. It comes into that particular space. Thank you. Thank you. Quick fire from you, Jagann. I think for me, the most important thing is...
[1287.33-1311.28]  community system, you talk about national system. I think for pandemics, epidemics, the most important thing is the community system. So we have to stop treating the communities of the volunteer of the community health workers as the last ride, last mile of response to first mile of preparedness. I think investing on them is the seer way of contributing towards responding to, preventing actually and preparing. So.
[1311.28-1334.38]  Even after the COVID-19 prime minister, we didn't learn enough lessons. We haven't invested in the community systems. We invest hundreds of millions on the national systems, but we don't spend hundreds of thousands in the community system. That must change. Yep, absolutely. Gemma, one key thing from you. One. Only one.
[1334.96-1364.56]  The understanding that no matter who you are, no matter which area you control, no matter if you're a government, a non-state armed group or any other authority that diseases cross any line that exists and that when we have one access is absolutely critical because still today we see governments taking measures that we know are not science-backed in response to Ebola and we see armed groups and actors inside DRC still resisting access. So if you're a government, a non-state armed group, any actor on the planet
[1364.56-1397.78]  we know what works and we know what enables us to respond so access everywhere and science-backed measures. Give our panel a big hand please. Right, a quick reshuffle up here and I'm going to invite my co-chair from the independent panel for Pandemic Preparedness and Response, President Ellen Johnson Serleaf and the Director-General of WHO, Dr Ted Ross, to come to the floor.
[1397.87-1426.74]  Ellen and I have been working on these issues, of course, for the six, I want you right here, Ellen. All right. That's possible. And Dr. Tedros next. So when, I think you're Tedros, I think you were being here. So when Ellen and I began our work at Dr. Tedros' request six and a bit years ago on the independent panel, I was very conscious that Ellen, of course, had led.
[1426.74-1450.62]  the response in Liberia to the West African outbreak of Ebola, which was very, very serious. And she brought to our deliberations firsthand knowledge of what it was like to lead in a crisis. So Ellen, I'm going to start with you just as the outbreak in your country was not a pandemic and that in DRC is not today.
[1450.62-1479.97]  But the structural failures that in the end will lead to pandemics are the same ones that turn any infectious disease threatened into a crisis. What would you say has improved since you led through Ebola, but what hasn't? Well, let me say that quite a bit has been improved. There's been some positive results. I mean, I know that it took some time.
[1479.97-1507.47]  for the member states to be able to work on the pandemic agreement. Finally, it did get passed in May 2025. One might also say that the International Health Regulation has been strengthened quite a bit.
[1507.47-1536.74]  And as a result of that, and I, the person who would speak more to that, would be Dr. Tedros, because we know that because of that, uh, tab U.S.O. now has a much better handle of it. And so that when we had the, the threat for the TRC with the, the Ebola threat, I just, I was just discussed by the other panel, uh, we were seeing that, uh, he was able to get it out. A fierce was.
[1536.74-1569.01]  announced right away, it became an emergency. So we've seen a lot now, what hasn't happened? He said, but what has not happened? We're not going to get past that agreement that has been signed because we need access to pathogen. There's been no access to that. And because of that, it's going to be difficult in this year's General Assembly.
[1569.23-1595.98]  to get a political agreement. And to get the declaration that would be required from the World Organization, you know, from the General Assembly, it's gonna be difficult because they're gonna be opposition, they're gonna be problems, whether or not that political declaration will ever pass. And if that doesn't pass, then we're gonna still have a lot of problems.
[1595.98-1625.02]  But I must say that the WHO has done a tremendous job trying to make sure that epidemic agreement was signed, working with all the countries to see how we can get the access to the pathogen. Our own Africa CDC has begun to do much more to be a part of this initiative and is cooperating. We hope very well.
[1625.02-1649.26]  with the visual and with Dr. Chedro. But we're not there yet, Helen. No, we're not there yet. We're still trying to find a way to, you know, to get to the place where we feel comfortable financing, of course. But I'm sure we will get to that. So I can leave it where, as far as I've gone. Thank you. Ted Ross, you put your heart and soul on to...
[1649.26-1679.98]  the reforms that have been needed to be undertaken, the new IHR, I believe, are a great help to you. The pandemic agreement text got under the line, but this vexatious pabs annex. You made a plea today to get it over the line. What needs to happen to get it over the line? Yeah, thank you. Thank you, Helen. And thank you, Helen. Very close.
[1680.21-1709.87]  for your leadership of the pandemic preparedness and, you know, the panel, PPPPR, many piece. It's actually your recommendations, most of them, from that recommendation that we are now converted them into initiatives and we're implementing them. Whether it's pandemic argument or IRAM amendment, the biohub, the, you know, the other initiatives.
[1709.87-1739.57]  that are in the pipeline. And we hope, you know, since these initiatives were tailored based on the lessons learned now, based on what you identified has failed, I think this will prepare the world better. So I just wanted to use this opportunity to thank you both for your leadership. And then on the pubs again, it's, as you say, part of the preparedness.
[1739.66-1767.95]  And it's very critical, because the pandemic agreement, as President Serleaf said, that was agreed in May 2025, will not start a ratification process unless the pub's agreement is concluded. So basically, the pandemic agreement is taken hostage by the pub's, because that was the condition they put when they agreed the pandemic agreement. So the pub's is very, very important.
[1767.95-1798.62]  And for the world to be prepared, we need to have the pandemic agreement from all the initiatives that started based on COVID less lessons. The pandemic agreement is actually central. That brings all the initiatives together and makes it also an international law that obliges member states to implement. And it's about coordination and governance which
[1798.62-1829.39]  you so as a gap them. So the public is really central, and that's the last piece of the puzzle. And how do we, what would be, what we should do to conclude this? I think if there is a will, there is a way. I see some trust deficit. I try to see as many, speak to as many members as possible, there is some trust deficit.
[1829.81-1856.99]  And what we're saying and they also understand is, how can one side sees the other side's perspective and focus on finding a middle ground resolution rather than declaring own position? Because that wouldn't take us anywhere if they're, okay, say this is my position and the other side would say this is my position. But we need to understand each other's...
[1856.99-1886.96]  concerns each other's perspectives, positions, and finding a middle ground is important. Although it's a bit slow, the last engagement I think was a movement in the right direction. And I hope they will conclude hopefully before the end of this year. But even if it's delayed before the end of May, that's what I would hope.
[1887.31-1916.66]  if they give it their best and fine middle grounds or what they call landing zones, some of them call it. And the commitment I see, because they have been to Geneva many times now. It's almost eight times, so they're nine, they're coming back. If there is no commitment, they wouldn't have even done that. So they work hard, they stay nights, late night meetings, and I hope there will be a way, but the approach should be the...
[1917.17-1947.50]  trying to see each other's perspective and We also encourage them as long as they can live with something they shouldn't expect You know everything to be in there, you know the way they want it so Actually an agreement the best would be both sides who are willing to live with it, but Maybe they wouldn't agree with everything because it's a given tech
[1947.57-1972.51]  And I think that kind of mindset would also help. Even the pandemic argument, there were the same ups and downs, finally agreed. And I hope this ups and downs we see will also be overcome. Some countries are proposing good ideas. When they come back in November, I hope there will be good progress.
[1972.51-2002.43]  And I was glad to see Spain and Namibia had a meeting here in New York. They had a bilateral. And one thing they discussed was on how to push the pap's negotiation forward. And that kind of political commitment, the highest level possible, is helpful. Because as you know, political interventions are surgical interventions. They can bring, you know, a virtuous from a vicious to
[2002.43-2031.22]  a virtuous cycle. So I'm hopeful. I'm hopeful, and especially me, I'm personally interested in this, because before I leave in August, 20, 27, I hope this will be good. We have so too, Ellen, you want to jump in. Yeah, I have two fingers. I want to just two fingers on that one. I think just to make sure that we know that there is great urgency on the part of the major countries.
[2031.22-2060.98]  to be able to get access, you know, to that. So the paps on their side is to get it as quickly as possible so that they can be able to do the research and all of them, come out with new responses to respond to it. But on the other side is, what do we get out of it? What do we get out of it? You know, what do those countries get out of it?
[2061.17-2090.85]  And now one see that there's another aspect of this in that on a bilateral basis. There have been some signing of agreements to be able to get access to the pathogen. And that of course is raising a lot of issues for many of those who see that this whole thing slipping away from the ability to have equity on both sides to find what you said, Cedric, to find a way where we can.
[2090.85-2115.82]  We can have a meeting of the minds, but we can get enough benefits in time as there's access to that. So that's going to be, and I'm glad that Namibia president, a woman president, usually can get things done.
[2116.94-2139.01]  Well, I think from the independent panel perspective, we'd like to see leaders step up now. You know, we need one of Prime Minister Carney's pragmatic coalitions to bring people together. Because negotiators get in the weeds and someone's got to drag them out of the weeds to say, get it done. As Dr. Ted Ross said, no one's going to get everything they wanted.
[2139.01-2168.94]  You have to move together. And then that starts the process, the signature, the ratification, the implementation, the conferences of parties. You can flesh out a framework convention. But we need these steps taken now. Is that not our central message to leaders from here? Yeah. And I agree also with President Serlev. The access and benefit should be on equal footing. Yes. And that's the principle also in the pandemic agreement that all member states agreed.
[2168.94-2191.15]  The differences are coming when you say equal footing, then when the details come, there is some difficulties. But having it on equal footing is important because we have seen during COVID when equity was challenged, you know, we face serious problems.
[2191.50-2228.94]  Ellen, perhaps just a word from you about regional resilience and regional self-reliance. How are you seeing this develop in your own region? Well, you know, we've just launched the Akra reset. And sovereignty is the major thrust in what that means. If we're going to assert sovereignty, it means we take primary responsibility.
[2229.68-2259.98]  Clearly, there are limitations. There are constraints in financing and whatnot, you know, through national budgets and whatnot. But I think you see much more now coming together under this ACRA reset. And more importantly, I think health has been identified as the major thrust of the reset of trying to bring together
[2260.21-2291.63]  regional groups to be able to get a stronger working Africa CDC to ensure, we hope you'll be there to be able to make a stronger coordination between Africa CDC and WHO, but build on the work that's been done now. And so I think that's going to, we hope lead too.
[2292.34-2321.82]  general agreement somewhere next year with the African Union coming together as one body. The economic union of West African states, ECOS, have already pulled together and have already had an understanding on how we're going to approach this as a unit and I think the
[2321.82-2348.59]  the South Africa Union, all of that will all come together with the African Union when the president of Ghana takes over the African Union next year. We expect that using the Akra reset, you know, which is something he started, I think he'll be able to bring the African countries together for the common position, you know, for being able to take that further.
[2348.91-2379.84]  Ted Ross, can we do this while keeping WHO as the major global force? It must be. Say it again. Can we do this while keeping WHO as the major global force? Yes, yes, yes. By the way, I've been involved from the start. Yes, and I'm a strong believer of the Akrari said. This is about sovereignty. This is about national ownership. This is about kind of mentality.
[2379.84-2404.42]  You know, take charge for responsibility. And I was actually very glad, not only held in the Agra Research Center, but maternal in child health. President Mohammed has announced as the litmus, if you like, for progress.
[2404.42-2428.70]  So it's very serious, and Ghana, of course, has committed resources from its own, Kofer, and many countries who have joined are also saying the same thing, and it doesn't mean that there should not be external support, but the external support will be aligned with their priorities. So the country will be at the center and leading.
[2428.70-2458.00]  and others supporting. So this is very, very important, and it directly actually addresses this, a, dependency mentality. So you're saying we should be out of this. And this is good news also for the developed countries. So I don't see any problem. Actually, I'm a very strong believer of continental organizations, like Africa, CDC, for instance.
[2458.06-2485.97]  It's growing from strings to strings. I'm glad to see that because when I was for a Minister of Ethiopia It was proposed by Ethiopia actually proposed the idea in in a summit in Ayu summit in Abuja in August in July 2013. It's already 13 years ago Just before Ebola hit West Africa and then when Ebola hit West Africa then that's when the implementation of the
[2485.97-2514.56]  establishment of the Africa CDC who was speeded up. And now with Ebola in the RC, we designed the plan, prepared the plan together, support from all partners, WHO and Africa CDC. And we have a joint incidence management system, and we complement each other, and we work together. So that's actually a very good example, and it can be replicated in other regions as well.
[2514.56-2538.37]  For WHO, it's actually best, by the way, if you want to be more powerful, work through others and with others. You don't need to control everything right to control. Of course, WHO is a global institution, but it should also learn to work with others, and this is what we're testing, and it's going well and could be used also for other regions as well.
[2538.37-2564.50]  National capacity, regional capacity is very important because there are differences between regions and countries and, you know, the regions can address some of the specific things to the region. So having strong regional continental institutions is actually a plus and it works very well with WHO. And not only Africa CDC, we're supporting Africa Medicines Agency.
[2564.72-2598.26]  But we don't see as competition here. We're investing in African-Americans agency to complement, and we can work together. And that could even bring better value for the people we serve when we do that. A very positive note to end our panel on. Thank you, our amazing leaders. Thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you.
[2619.79-2647.58]  Thank you so much. Thank you so much. Thank you so much. Thank you so much. Thank you so much. Thank you so much. Thank you so much. Thank you, Ellen. Thank you, Ellen. Thank you, Ellen. Thank you, Ellen. Thank you, Ellen. Thank you, Ellen. Thank you, Ellen. Thank you, Ellen. Thank you, Ellen. Thank you, Ellen. Thank you, Ellen.
[2647.58-2685.17]  The Vice Minister of Health of Brazil and the State Secretary at Finland's Ministry of Social Security and Finland has kindly co-sponsored our event. So, panelists, please. Hello, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi
[2686.19-2713.17]  Look, we were so impressed at the way your Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez and government stepped up in the response to the Andes Hentavirus. Where would we have been with Spain? And Spain, from my perception, is stepping up in global health at a time when we do see some others pulling back. So, tell us a little bit about Spain's approach to this.
[2713.42-2741.52]  Okay, first of all, thank you very much. Thank you Helen for this panel for inviting me. And as you say, I think that all my country, all Spain, from the prime minister to the last people in my ministry are involved. I committed with global health and with how we can share and how we can afford.
[2741.52-2770.88]  all the things around the next pandemic or the next health threats and everything. And we have a use case, as you say, no, with the anti-birus. It was a small outbreak, small. It could be bigger. But I think it's a use case because we have an outbreak with more or less 200 people from
[2770.88-2800.61]  23 countries. So we need to cooperate and we need to have a very tight collaboration with 23 countries, with WHO, of course, and the European community and with all the knowledge that we have learned from pandemic COVID-19.
[2800.61-2825.62]  I think this is, of course, the way we have to work. And we know and we have learned that preparedness begins long before the emergency appears. And I think this is one of the main lessons we have to put on the table for the future.
[2825.65-2855.62]  It was fantastic to see Spain accept responsibility and really move on this. Vice Minister Abbiano from Brazil, obviously Brazil has been a very important force in the negotiations in Geneva around the pandemic agreement and still with the PABs. You also very much put regional manufacturing on the G20 agenda a few years ago. You are a very big middle power.
[2855.62-2884.53]  approach Brazil's taking now to pushing the agenda forward, to complete the agreement, pandemic agreement, perhaps annex, and also the regional agendas. Thank you, Anna. It's a pleasure to be here. And first of all, I think the, when you think in the pandemic about COVID, we need to, for Brazil, it's very important that it's not only an emergency crisis, it's a crisis of inequality.
[2884.75-2915.87]  In Brazil, the deaths caused by COVID was strongly associated with social inequalities. So this is an important point. Our health systems need to be prepared to provide access, services, technologies for who need. And also, when we discuss about vaccines, medicine, technologies,
[2915.87-2944.37]  and other health products. We also need to develop this in a regional perspective. So Brazil, one of our priorities is moving to create greater capacity of local and regional production of technologies. We are investing a lot in transferring technologies used capacity of purchasing. We have a strong public system.
[2944.37-2971.41]  We use this capacity of purchasing to transfer technologies and producing nationally, but also there is an important lesson from Brazil, not only from Brazil and Portugal, but from Brazil at that time it was important, that have technologies available is not enough, because we have another battle, a battle against misinformation, this information.
[2971.41-2999.09]  So preparedness must also include effective public communication, transparency, and capacity to build and maintain public trust. And this is precisely why multilateral systems matter. So no country can prepare for epidemic alone. The pathogens will not respect borders, unfortunately.
[2999.09-3027.50]  and either should our efforts to protect people from them. So Brazil is very engaged with President Lula, Minister Alejandro Pajila, in the implementation and strengthening international framework for pandemic preparation, preparedness and response, including the amendments to international health regulations and the pandemic agreement. And we are also fully engaged in the negotiation of PEP annex.
[3027.76-3049.49]  because sharing of pathogens and genomic information must go hand-in-hand with fair and equitable benefit sharing. So if I could summarize, we need implementation, equity and cooperation. That's three good points.
[3053.10-3081.34]  Right, and then to Finland, which has committed to a one health approach, very vital in prevention preparedness response. Can you tell us, in Finland, what does this mean in practice and how are you embedding it in your approach and your budgeting decisions? Well, thank you, Helen, and thank you all for being here today. I would like to start by emphasizing what you said about trust.
[3081.34-3107.68]  And I think this is really important that we have to have trust in society in order for our citizens to understand why we are investing today, the millions that we are investing. And, of course, Finland has a long road border with Russia, so we are used to this hard money. But just a few weeks ago, it was really...
[3107.68-3135.98]  I was happy and with the government we're happy to see that even though we know as a member of NATO we are required to invest 5% of our GDP in defence but 2% of that can be earmarked for resilience and this I think is important that we talk about what the resilience means and it also means that the government decided to allocate 300 million euros over the next five years to build health system readiness.
[3136.02-3165.09]  And this is something that we have kind of lacked on before. I can admit, but we are now doing that. And it's a significant investment from an all-hazards perspective. But it really comes with the trust in society, that we are talking the same language, and that we are also talking about what's happening in the world. I remember watching the news during the Hunter virus with my 12-year-old. We saw Monica on the TV.
[3165.09-3191.60]  And he wanted a new pandemic. You know why? Because he didn't want to go to school. But I'm like, OK, yes, that's your memory of COVID. But that's not how we build societies. We build societies that are resilient. And so we have to have our, I think, the core structures have to be in place in order for us to be able to be prepared for anything.
[3191.70-3220.26]  Interesting on one health that the pandemic fund chief executive Priya Basu said on a panel I was at yesterday that they hadn't expected it but almost all the applications that have come to the pandemic fund for funding support in country have included a one health approach and this is really extremely encouraging so countries are getting it that this is very important. Now the elephant in the room
[3220.26-3248.34]  We have a high-level meeting going on in conference room one. It's understood that there is still some disagreement around the political declaration and it will likely not be adopted today. Of course, that doesn't mean it's not adopted. It means it goes to the General Assembly. Can we have from your governments a commitment that you want to see this declaration in place?
[3248.34-3276.13]  and that the General Assembly should vote on a question to give momentum. What do you think? I think we have to push to this political statement, and we need to push, we have to, and we need to, because we, of course, we have a lot of levels. No, we need a strong health system, reliable funding, and, of course, cooperation.
[3276.13-3303.63]  but we need to have consensus about common sense, no? It's common sense, it's not about anything at all, it's about common sense and we need to show and to give trust to the people that we have learned from pandemic and we have learned something and I need that from our government we are going to be
[3303.63-3332.34]  brave, and we are going to push us all as we can. Thank you. Brazil. Certainly we need to push, but also I think we need to ask why not? Why not? And who is not agreeing, did you say it for the people? What are the reasons? And who is agreeing, who are agreeing? We need to cooperate.
[3332.34-3361.39]  So I think this is an ethical question. Yeah, ultimately Yes, obviously we need to cooperate and I I think the the most important outcome of course would be that all countries would see health as an investment not not only So this paradigm can shift shift is something that we really need if you want to have comprehensive thinking and society resilience so so
[3361.42-3383.17]  Why not is actually that that is the correct question so so in order for us to be prepared We need the whole of government and and the one health ideology behind that And I think perhaps to sum up because we're very close to the end of our session health most definitely is an investment
[3383.17-3403.01]  It also comes into the broader definition of defence that you used. What are we defending ourselves against? Actually, in our common interest, we're defending ourselves and our people against a deadly disease. This makes pandemic readiness, preparation, and response a global public good.
[3403.01-3428.64]  And we need to give more consideration to how we finance global public goods, particularly in a time of reducing fast-reducing aid budgets. Do we have new mechanisms, new ideas of funding, what must be done in the interests of humanity? Because in the end, it's not enough for New Zealand, Spain, Brazil, Finland, and like countries to be prepared. We need to support preparedness and readiness.
[3428.64-3444.05]  in every corner on Earth. And I think that's what unites us on the panel today. Thank you everyone for attending and enjoy the rest of the day. Thank you Monica. Thank you.
