UNREVIEWED MACHINE TRANSCRIPTION of the English audio/interpretation track. Not an official UN record. Speaker identities are not inferred. Verify against the recording. QUALITY REVIEW REQUIRED: 15 cues have low-confidence or repetitive-text indicators.
https://webtv.un.org/en/asset/k13/k13zy5nmni

[5.33-35.62]  I'm going to show you how to do it. I'm going to show you how to do it. I'm going to show you how to do it. I'm going to show you how to do it.
[35.62-65.47]  So, you can see that there's a lot of people in the community, and you can see that there's a lot of people in the community, and you can see that there's a lot of people in the community, and you can see that there's a lot of people in the community, and you can see that there's a lot of people in the community, and you can see that there's a lot of people in the community.
[65.47-95.49]  I'm going to show you how to make a video of this video.
[95.49-123.36]  I'm going to show you a little bit of video. I'm going to show you a little bit of video. I'm going to show you a little bit of video.
[123.36-153.60]  I'm going to show you a little bit of what I'm going to do.
[153.60-182.66]  I'm not sure if I'm not sure if I'm not sure if I'm not sure if I'm not sure if I'm not sure if I'm not sure if I'm not sure if I'm not sure if I'm not sure if I'm not sure if I'm not sure if I'm not sure if I'm not sure if I'm not sure if I'm not sure if I'm not sure if I'm not sure if I'm not sure if I'm not sure if I'm not sure if I'm not sure if I'm not sure if I'm not sure if I'm not sure if I'm not sure if I'm not sure if I'm not sure if I'm not sure if I'm not sure if I'm not sure if I'm not sure if I'm not sure if I'm not sure if I'm not sure if I'm not sure if I'm not sure if I'm not sure if I'm not sure if I'm not sure if I'm not sure if I'm not sure if I'm not sure if I'm not sure if I'm not sure
[182.66-212.59]  But I'm not sure if I'm not sure if I'm sure if I'm sure if I'm sure if I'm sure if I'm sure if I'm sure if I'm sure if I'm sure if I'm sure if I'm sure if I'm sure if I'm sure if I'm sure if I'm sure if I'm sure if I'm sure if I'm sure if I'm sure if I'm sure if I'm sure if I'm sure if I'm sure if I'm sure if I'm sure if I'm sure if I'm sure if I'm sure if I'm sure if I'm sure if I'm sure if I'm sure if I'm sure if I'm sure if I'm sure if I'm sure if I'm sure if I'm sure if I'm sure if I'm sure if I'm sure if I'm sure if I'm sure if I'm sure if I'm sure if I'm sure if I'm sure if I'm sure if I'm sure if I'm sure if I'm sure if I'm sure if I'm sure if I'm sure if I
[212.59-242.61]  Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you.
[242.80-271.54]  Since 1978, UNDP has the honor of accompanying Vietnam through one of the most incredible national transformations that history has ever seen. Starting with the post-war reconstruction and the historic Doimoi reforms to massive inroads that have reduced poverty, have brought new breakthroughs in resilience and in sustainability. And I really would like to...
[271.54-298.94]  quote Ambassador Viet who rightly said at our last session of the executive board a few weeks ago, change has indeed been a constant and UNDP support has evolved accordingly. It has indeed adapted over time and it has surfaced new development solutions as Vietnam's needs and ambitions have changed. And this is why this new
[298.94-327.25]  country program matters so much because it responds to division that Vietnam has put forward for a new era. It has set an ambitious destination and that destination is a very clear one that is to become a high income country by 2045 and to reach net zero by 2050. Now to achieve those ambitious
[327.25-354.43]  reforms, the old development model will not work. And this is why this new program puts such a heavy emphasis on science, on technology, on innovation, on digital transformation, on strong and on resilience institutions, on a dynamic private sector, on investing in people on a green and resilient economy. Now, this is not just an ambition.
[354.43-383.41]  out there in the future. This is already what we are seeing today. Today, we see a Vietnam that is preparing for the future, and UNDP is helping Vietnam pioneer one of Southeast Asia's most ambitious, for example, carbon market reform, turning climate commitments into investable opportunities for business and for financiers. As the Vietnam's capabilities and global standing grow, our partnership must also evolve.
[383.41-412.53]  Today, UNDP in Vietnam is not just bringing development resources. What you are bringing today is ideas. We are bringing global networks. We are bringing capital around Vietnam's priorities. It is to help strengthen institutions that make these investment works, that unlock the massive pools of private capital that are needed for that green transition. And this is also where an incredible
[412.53-439.78]  opportunity lies. Today, Vietnam's development experience is not just a national asset. Today, that experience is a global one. And really, there, UNDP can use its global footprint to share Vietnam's experience and to share those solutions with other countries in a true example of South-South cooperation. I saw this firsthand.
[439.78-466.05]  And I was at, well, I would say a recent event. This was at Davos annual meeting of the World Economic Forum. I was present at the Danang Roundtable Dinner that was organized there. Division for Danang really is an extraordinary one. One of a nexus of green capital and digital finance bringing together international partners. And it's really...
[466.05-496.05]  proved one simple truth. That is, if you combine a strong national vision and you combine it with an investable market, global capital pays attention. Now, this is not only how Vietnam has been transformed as a country. It is also more and more how Vietnam is helping other countries to transform themselves. And that global, that growing global role is exactly why we are so pleased.
[496.05-525.95]  to do this partnership. This new memorandum of understanding, which is providing a 10-year rent-free UN House, is far more than an administrative agreement. It is a powerful expression of Vietnam's leadership in the multilateral system and its commitment to this partnership. It is also an investment in the future of the United Nations. And I think at this moment this is something which is really being noticed and being appreciated by the whole United Nations
[525.95-556.42]  family. The president, distinguished ministers, excellencies, five decades of cooperation really have given us a formidable foundation. But the future will obviously demand another one. One with more ambition, one with more innovation, one with more investment. And UNDP stands ready to meet the moment alongside of Vietnam, alongside the UN family, and alongside, of course, the people of Vietnam.
[556.42-577.58]  Because the new chapter of that partnership will not just simply reflect Vietnam's development. It should help write a playbook for the development of the rest of the world. I thank you.
[580.30-609.20]  Your Excellency President-Mom Ambassador Excellency is a really wonderful honor to be here with all of you to get today. Let me begin by congratulating Vietnam on its remarkable development achievements and on its ambitious visions for the future. Vietnam has shown that investing in people, especially investing in children, can drive profound social and economic transformation. For more than five decades, UNICEF has partnered with Vietnam to advance children's rights.
[609.20-631.31]  As the country enters a new phase of development, we remain committed to supporting inclusive, sustainable, and resilient growth with children and young people at its heart. Your Exynse UNICEF's new country program reflects our shared ambition to place children and young people at the heart of Vietnam's future development. It is built around three mutually reinforcing priorities.
[631.31-649.10]  First, inclusive child-focused human development. UNICEF will support your efforts to ensure that every child, especially the most vulnerable, has access to quality healthcare, including mental health, nutrition, education, and social protection services. Second, good governance and child protection.
[649.23-677.44]  UNICEF will work with the government and partners to strengthen systems that protect children from violence, exploitation and abuse, including in the digital environment. We will also work to ensure that children's rights and voices are reflected in laws, policies and public institutions. And as digital information and transformation accelerates, we see significant opportunities to work together to create a safer and more inclusive digital future for every child.
[677.44-707.06]  Third, child-centered climate and environmental action. UNICEF will support efforts to strengthen the resilience of children, communities, and the essential services they rely on in the face of climate and environmental risks. These priorities are closely aligned with Vietnam's aspiration of prosperous, resilient, and inclusive society. They also reflect a conviction at the heart of UNICEF's work that investing in children is one of the most powerful investments a country can make in its future.
[707.38-729.20]  UNICEF is proud to bring our global experience and our unique mandate for children to this collective effort. And as Vietnam's global influence continues to grow, we see important opportunities to share the country's experience and leadership through South-South and triangular cooperation. Your Excellency UNICEF remains committed to working alongside the Government of Vietnam.
[729.20-764.05]  communities, children, and young people, as well as our United Nations partners. Together, we can continue advancing the rights of every child and help Vietnam build a more inclusive and sustainable future. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Executive Director Catherine Russell. And now, I have the honor to invite Executive Director of the UNFPA, Ms. Dan Keita. Your Excellency, President Tom.
[764.05-790.16]  President of Vietnam and General Secretary of the Communist Party, Excellency Honourable Ministers, Excellency Permanent Representative, Excellencies in the Room, esteemed United Nations colleagues, all protocol observes, dear partners. Next year, Vietnam will mark 50 years of membership in the United Nations and 50 years of partnership with the United Nations Population Fund.
[790.22-816.24]  For five decades, our work together has supported important achievements, including the country's first census in 1979. The census has tracked the arc of Vietnam's progress. Fewer women are dying in childbirth, and people are living longer, underscoring progress in health, medicine, and education.
[816.24-845.52]  In the next 10 years, one in five people in Vietnam will be over 60. Today, our work helps ensure that development gains Vietnam has made over the past 50 years can be felt everywhere. That means leaving no one behind, including vulnerable people in the hardest place to reach. At UNFPA, we have seen the power of what we can achieve there.
[845.52-875.02]  Just very recently, we recorded zero maternal death in a UNFPS-supported program in Vietnam that serves 60 remote villages across the country. As Vietnam development evolves, so does our partnership. We understand that demographic shift can bring both opportunities and challenges. UNFPS stands ready by your side as you aim to meet the needs of a changing population.
[875.02-901.84]  You have my assurance that our new country program document is designed to deliver results in line with your government priority. It will help Vietnam use data intelligence to prepare for an aging society. It will support national effort to safeguard the health and well-being of women and girls and it will help all people build their family and the future they want. Estim President.
[902.19-931.07]  shared progress began with shared ambition. UNFPA brings evidence, technical expertise, and innovative solutions to the table, including new ways to finance programs that Vietnam can lead and sustain. That is sustainable development in action. That is how we rise together. I am proud of what we have achieved together and the progress that is within our reach. With a renewed partnership expressed through the country program,
[931.07-962.56]  We are committed Vietnam to continue development success. And we look forward to your growing contribution and at the international stage through South South and triangular cooperation. As your country continues to rise, we look forward to the many more lives that will transform and all the possibility that our partnership will create along the way. I thank you. Thank you very much, Executive Director.
[962.56-998.85]  And now I have the distinct honor to invite General Secretary and President Olam to deliver his keynote.
[998.85-1028.69]  We have a lot of work to do. We have a lot of work to do. We have a lot of work to do.
[1029.42-1062.48]  We are going to take a look at this. We are going to take a look at this. We are going to take a look at this.
[1062.48-1091.31]  But I think that we have learned that we have learned that we have learned that we have learned that we have learned that we have learned that we have learned that we have learned that we have learned that we have learned that we have learned that we have learned that we have learned that we have learned that we have learned that we have learned that we have learned that we have learned that we have learned that we have learned that we have learned that we have learned that we have learned that we have learned that we have learned that we have learned that we have learned that we have learned that we have learned that we have learned that we have learned that we have learned that we have learned that we have learned that we have learned that we have learned that we have learned that we have learned that we have learned that we have learned that we have learned that we have learned that we have learned that we have learned that we have learned that we have learned that we have learned that we have learned that we have learned that we have learned that we have learned that we have learned that we have learned that we have learned that we have learned that
[1091.31-1118.56]  We are going to take a look at this. We are going to take a look at this. We are going to take a look at this.
[1118.56-1142.26]  We're going to come here, come here, come here, come here, come here, come here, come here, come here.
[1142.26-1171.94]  I'm not sure if I'm not sure if I'm not sure.
[1171.94-1203.15]  I'm not sure if you have any questions. I'm not sure if you have any questions. I'm not sure if you have any questions. I'm not sure if you have any questions. I'm not sure if you have any questions. I'm not sure if you have any questions. I'm not sure if you have any questions. I'm not sure if you have any questions.
[1203.47-1232.10]  The first thing we did was the first thing we did was the last thing we did was the last thing we did was the last thing we did was the last thing we did was the last thing we did was the last thing we did was the last thing we did was the last thing we did was the last thing we did was the last thing we did was the last thing we did was the last thing we did was the last thing we did was the last thing we did was the last thing we did was the last thing we did was the last thing we did was the last thing we did was the last thing we did was the last thing we did was the last thing we did was the last thing we did was the last thing we did was the last thing we did was the last thing we did was the last thing we did was the last thing we did was the last thing we did was the last thing we did was the last thing we did the last thing we did the last thing we did was the last thing we did the last thing we did the last thing we did the last thing we did the last
[1232.10-1260.96]  In the last few years, we had a lot of work to do. We had a lot of work to do. We had a lot of work to do. We had a lot of work to do. We had a lot of work to do. We had a lot of work to do. We had a lot of work to do. We had a lot of work to do. We had a lot of work to do. We had a lot of work to do. We had a lot of work to do.
[1260.96-1296.03]  Thank you very much. We will now move to the formal handover of the important documents.
[1296.03-1365.34]  May I invite Under Secretary-General to join the President on the stage to witness the handover of the documents, please. And for the first document, I would like to invite the Minister of Finance of Vietnam to join the Administrator of UNDP, Mr. Alexander Dukru. May I now invite
[1365.34-1415.25]  Ms. Russell, the CPD with UNICEF. And now the Executive Director of UNFPA for the CPD of UNFPA. Thank you very much. I would now like to invite the Deputy Foreign Minister and Administrator Dukru to again come to the stage for the handover of the agreement on the Green One UN House in Hanoi.
[1417.10-1445.23]  This is an agreement between the government of Vietnam and UNDP on the renovation and occupancy of the Green One UN House in Hanoi. And this is again a testament to the Vietnamese government's continued support through the provision of rent-free premises to all UN agencies working in Hanoi. Thank you very much. And finally, I would like to invite the representative of the UN Office on Drugs and Crime.
[1445.23-1488.00]  and the representative of the Ministry of Public Security to come to the stage to hand over a framework for the consultation regarding the establishment of a regional counter-cyber crime hub in Hanoi, Vietnam. Thank you all. May I now invite the Administrator, Executive Director, Executive Director and Minister, of course, to join the President on the stage for a group photo. May I also invite senior UN colleagues, Kani, please?
[1488.00-1538.90]  Mandib, would you like to join? And please, this brings us to the end of the special event, Rising Together, Vietnam, UN Partnership for Sustainable Development. Once again, thank you very much to Administrator Dukru, Executive Director, Russell, Executive Director, Director Iate, thank you very much for joining us here today. Thank you. And of course, thank you, Under Secretary-General.
