UNREVIEWED MACHINE TRANSCRIPTION of the English audio/interpretation track. Not an official UN record. Speaker identities are not inferred. Verify against the recording.
https://webtv.un.org/en/asset/k16/k16joru5tn

[4.91-19.06]  Our delegation was led by President Ikushordan that highlighted in the speech in the plenary our support for multilateralism and the UN reform as we were involved in the UN80 agenda. Romania.
[19.06-48.40]  continues to stand as a strong supporter for peace in the region. For Ukraine, we have condemned the illegal war of aggression that Russia is carrying in our region. And we have reaffirmed our support for the two-state solution when it comes to the situation in Gaza and our support for the two-state solution, a longstanding one. In terms of the agenda of the last days, we have held ministerial meetings on maritime security, specifically Romania, together with
[48.40-71.97]  France, Ukraine, and Kayakalas from the European Commission. We have co-presided a panel on maritime security, specifically on access to food and preventing food crisis by restoring the commercial lanes in the Black Sea and the Solidarity lanes.
[71.97-99.60]  Also, we have had the opportunity throughout these days to discuss our year-long involvement in the reforms that we consider that United Nations needs through the UN-80 initiative, but also through Romania's role of having the presidency of the executive board of UNDP, UNFPA, UNOPS, and also our involvement in the Princeton group. Throughout these days, we focused on the use of artificial intelligence because we...
[99.60-128.88]  want to balance the economic growth and technological needs of our economies, but in the same time be mindful of the need of security, be mindful of the need of time to adapt for our societies, our generation, and specifically our children. We have joined the AI opportunity statement and a call for control front here, AI models, on Romania's behalf, and also the national statement in the high-level meeting on tackling sea-level rises.
[128.88-158.10]  Today, we have hosted the ministerial meeting of the countries involved in the Central European Initiative. We also hold the leadership of the South Eastern European cooperation process. I'm mentioning this because we believe that connectivity in our region, be it through roads, railway, fluvial connectivity, and increasing the infrastructure at the port of Constantinople, Jerusalem, and our capacity to support higher commercial
[158.10-168.05]  So the Black Sea are essential not just for the region, but also Romania's role in connecting Europe with the South Coast Asia and the Middle East.
[168.27-197.87]  Now, I want to focus on the next remarks on the effect that the Russia's world of aggression has on the Black Sea and what are our current actions in that direction. Russia's continuous attacks against Ukraine ports and maritime infrastructure are not only attacks against Ukraine, but they have generated a number of security incidents in Romania's eastern border on the Danube and the Black Sea. Now, currently, the Black Sea in 2026 is one of the deadliest maritime global
[197.87-225.82]  for merchants and seafarers. And I'm not saying that just to highlight the risks that are now present at the Black Sea, but to support the international diplomatic effort to generate a ceasefire at the Black Sea, and also our own investments and our own decisions to have a stronger force response, steam force response capacity at the Black Sea. And we have done so in recent incidents. We're grateful that
[225.82-250.88]  to the personnel that has taken on this risk and enabled to generate a proper first response. We have also increased our partnership with Bulgaria and Turkey from the mining operations to inside our common military partnership to protect critical infrastructure. Now, we are also in the process of increasing the monitoring
[250.88-277.04]  capacities by international collaboration. We together with Bulgaria have proposed to the European institutions the project to have EU maritime security hub in Constanza and respectfully Varna to allow for enhanced analytical capabilities, better first responder reactions, but also a better coordination with the countries at the Black Sea.
[277.04-306.35]  We have expanded our capacity across the entire logistical chains in the port of Constance, a lower than you, but border crossing along our road and rail connections. Now, we are doing so in coordination with Ukraine, Republic of Moldova, the European Commission send inside the EU Solidarity Lens frameworks. That has meant national investment, but it also means a priority for European Union funding as we are negotiating the next budget. And it is also part of our core agenda with international investors.
[306.35-318.14]  and multilateral banks. Another aspect when it comes to the Black Sea is energy. We are currently in Romania.
[318.14-347.47]  one of the core natural gas producers inside the European Union with the Neptune deep project that the Black Sea on natural gas next year. We're going to have an increase in our volume by 80 percent. And that we believe is also a very important element for access to affordable and sustainable energy in the region as well. That is why we strongly support the global gateway project investment processes. Also the free seas initiative where we have taken the decision here Romania to
[347.47-360.24]  allocate 50 million euros to the fund of funds for strategic investments there. Now our purpose here at UN and throughout the day has been to support the initiative to have a moratorium on effect.
[360.24-387.87]  on attacks on the Black Sea that affect food exports, and therefore the moratorium could serve, first of all, to allow access to grains in a proper manner for the countries that need it the most, and in the same time as a confidence-building measure, not as a replacement of the peace negotiations, of the peace process, but rather as a confidence-building measure and a preparation in that direction.
[387.87-413.79]  The Black Sea must once again become a total space for free trade, international law and cooperation and we stand ready to continue doing our part by keeping these maritime life lines open. That requires also a sustained commitment of the international community and that is why here throughout these days we have continued dialogue at the UN level, at the European Union and with all our allies and partners.
[413.79-432.37]  When it comes to the global food supply chain, when it comes to grains, when it comes to sunflower seeds, we need to remind ourselves that bread can never be weaponized and access to food is absolutely essential everywhere in the world. Whenever we see...
[432.37-450.54]  disruptions at the commercial lanes on the Black Sea. We see an increase in prices to the countries that are more sensitive to that, restoring a secure area in the Black Sea, increasing on our side the capacity for the port of Constance and the operational capacity.
[450.54-480.08]  supports global food supplies and is also an essential mechanism for the resilience needed of the economy of Ukraine. On Romania's side as well, we are the number one exporter of grains in the European Union. There are more than 10 million tons that we have managed to put on the market, thanks to the great work of our agriculture teams. And we will continue to do that. It's in our national interest also to support an increased capacity, but also it's a mechanism to support our neighbors as a transit.
[480.08-511.76]  country. That being said, we believe the Black Sea is not just a regional topic. It matters to the world. And we have seen a high interest of other countries here at United Nations. And that is why we hope that our common efforts to generate a moratorium are going to conclude with a positive response. Thank you. If there are any questions? Thank you so much. So as you are located in a very critical
[511.76-539.31]  And with the Russian war on Ukraine, now it's been in larger discussion like Russia is testing Article 5 of NATO. A lot of violations been reported across Europe. A lot of sabotage attacks in Germany and other places. So Iran is supplying drones to Russia and a lot of Russian attacks on Ukraine.
[539.31-567.60]  are with those Iranian matrons. So, since you are largest supporter of two-state solutions, so on that very matter of Iran, because Iran is also a supporter of two-state solution. So, what is your view of Iranian supply of drones to Russia? Number one. Our view is very clear on that, and I have said this to Minister Iraq also last year here at UN. We are in the European Union, of course, condemning the RGC and also the
[567.60-595.06]  Partnership that exists between Iran and Russia on drone production. That is something Very clear for us. There is no one's or no lack of clarity there. And one last thing your opinion Comes to an agreement between them like they will end dependency on Russian gas till 2027 and you said you have huge resources at home. So how prepare you are and
[595.06-623.12]  What potential you guys have basically on domestic front and you are working on that? What parallel strategy you guys have basically with the natural resources? Thank you. Thank you for the question. Romania has stopped importing natural gas from Russia years ago. That is why we have also supported the United States called towards the European Union members to stop buying Russian gas. We support that inside the European Union. And we believe that is possible.
[623.12-651.39]  also by increasing our own production of sustainable sources of energy because we need the larger offering to make sure we have affordable prices, not just for families and citizens, but also for the competitiveness of our businesses. What are we doing specifically in Romania for that? We are increasing our natural gas production. We have natural gas reserves at the Black Sea and the Neptune Deep Project, which is an essential project that's going to generate a high volume next year.
[651.39-662.64]  is our core objective. That is why we've also increased the partnership on securing critical infrastructure at the Black Sea. We are nuclear energy.
[662.64-691.98]  producers. We've been that for many years. We have 50 years of partnership with Canada, for example, in that direction. We are among the countries that have put the latest nuclear production capacities into the grid, although it has been some time ago. And our plans there is to build two new reactors for China for the nuclear plant reactor three and four. And we're working in that direction with Canada, Japan, South Korea, United States.
[691.98-702.32]  and that as well is going to be a sustainable, predictable affordable source of energy. But having more energy is not enough.
[702.32-728.80]  It also matters how is it that we create better connections in the grid we have seen in the last year on our side an accelerated investment on Connecting our energy grid with Ukrainian Republic of Moldova on their side as well They're building the part of interconnectors and that has allowed us to see a very clear roadmap in how our
[728.80-758.19]  how our region becomes autonomous from Russian energy sources. And in the same time, those connections allow us at peak moments when we see risks arising to rely also on our neighbors. And I'm going to give a very clear example on that when we have seen the draft on the Danube. That has become a challenge for the nuclear production capacities that rely on Danube water for the cooling system. And it has matter in those days that we could rely on our neighbors to be able to synchronize.
[758.19-787.41]  based on the connections that we have on the energy grid part of the offering so we do our best to keep the prices at the proper level. And one last thing that I want to say because I think this is relevant for other countries as well and it's relevant for how we look at development investments. We have senior Romania, one of the fastest growing capacities in terms of solar energy and that has happened through individual household or small businesses that have taken on projects for
[787.41-806.93]  solar panels. And I'm mentioning that because, for example, when we had to stop one of the nuclear reactors because of the draft, the peak moment we have seen those small sources of solar energy collectively insert energy into the grid that was in a higher volume than the nuclear reactor.
[806.93-844.08]  investing in these small capacities at a citizen level or at a small enterprise level. First of all, it helps them as an energy source and it's clean and sustainable. But in the same time, it also builds up the resilience of the entire system. Thank you very much, Mr. Curtis here. Thank you very much, Madam Minister. Mr. Curtis here. I have two quick questions. Is the European Union strong enough to defend itself without the United States?
[844.59-854.42]  And the second question. Second question, what role should Romania play in shipping groups policy toward Iran?
[855.38-880.90]  Okay, so in terms of defense for us NATO is the number one priority. We have seen from the Ankara Summit a very clear common position in terms of what we do with our increased budgets on defense and deterrence. On Romania side we are allocating for example this year 3.7% from the GDP and we're going to reach our 5% NATO target ahead of time.
[880.90-902.18]  We do believe in the burden-sharing process, in the transformation process towards NATO 3.0 in a way in which we also invest in our defense production capacity. That is something that we're working with European countries, but also with the United States. In the European Union, we have a financing mechanism called...
[902.18-920.43]  safe as an access to to finance for defense procurement but in the same time for us it has been an instrument throughout this year to create partnerships that bring in the know-how and the investment needed to create the industrial
[920.43-949.74]  capacity and production base in Romania to be able to also have an offering that to the other countries. And that generates the income that we think is needed in time. For example, we're producing with U.S. partners ammunition. We're producing with partners from Germany, a lot of the new equipments that are needed now. France has a strong partnership with us as well. And in the next phase, we're going to expand the number of international partners we're working with.
[949.74-982.37]  And with Ukraine specifically, we have an agreement after President Nikushodan and President Zelensky agreed on the strategic partnership between our countries that we do use the know-how that has been forged in the world in Romania to produce drone and anti-drone capabilities. And, yeah. Would you be able to offer more detail on the expansion at Constanza, what type of extra capacity is expected, and what type of funding is going into it? Yeah.
[982.37-1008.98]  Thank you for the question. So when it comes to Constanza, we have the civilian port and then close to it because we have the military bases. We also have this part. Through the safe mechanism, part of the dual use infrastructure, we have supported the drainage there. So it has a larger capacity. When it comes to the Constanza port, the focus is on the capacity to handle an increased volume.
[1009.26-1038.86]  in storage, in transportation. The Port of Constanza has also finalized throughout the last years more international partnerships with ports across the world for exchange of practices and also for the digitalization and technology part of that. In terms of financing, of course, we are looking at our national budget. We are discussing with financing institutions here in the United States. We are approaching this as a priority for European Union funding when it comes to the
[1038.86-1069.07]  the future budget and financial allocations are going to be designed. Of course, we are not yet there when it comes to the negotiation inside the European Union, because we are at the phase where the overall design of the budget is being discussed, not necessarily direct allocations. But we consider that key infrastructure, such as the Port of Constanza, need to be in a place of eligibility for strategic investments. Yes?
[1070.58-1091.49]  Thank you so much for doing this briefing. I'm Omar of TRT World. I want to ask you a couple of questions. How important is Turkey's role in Black Sea security? And what is the reaction you are getting from the diplomats here, Americans, Russians, Chinese, Ukrainians, when it comes to seeking pause in attacks on the energy sites across the region?
[1091.49-1116.02]  Okay, so thank you. When it comes to the conversations I've had with Ukrainians throughout these days, but also throughout time, when we look at the potential of a ceasefire and the stopping of the attacks, it cannot be dedicated just to energy. The conversation we approached today was dedicated on food supply chains because those are the ones that affect
[1116.02-1125.70]  or so many countries around the world. Or Romania side, we support a ceasefire that is a ceasefire that
[1125.70-1154.99]  protect all the critical infrastructure and transportation lanes. So we see that the ceasefire would allow for the flow of food that is needed across the world, specifically with priority the grace, but also in terms of energy. We also rely on the Black Sea commercial lanes when it comes to the petrol, where importing, for example, from Kazakhstan. That also is directly connected to the security of the Black Sea. That's why I've spoken with the Minister of Foreign Affairs from
[1154.99-1176.78]  and we plan to meet here at UN as well to be able to discuss more on those transportation links. But at this moment of time, just a ceasefire dedicated to just one of the areas, I don't think it's a path that has the potential for success. Sorry, if I can take the...
[1177.07-1202.26]  Okay. So we, I have spoken with Minister Hakan Fedan yesterday. We are continuing our partnership on that, as I've mentioned, but just as a recap. We work with Bulgaria and Turkey on the mining task force. We've done that for a number of years and we've done that successfully. We've worked also with UK or Canada, for example, in terms of training.
[1202.26-1231.82]  And we have decided that the Ankara Summit to increase that partnership between Romania, Turkey, and Bulgaria for protection of critical infrastructure. And by that, we mean under sea cables, for example. By that, we mean the energy infrastructure. By that, we mean our collective capacity to protect the Black Sea. In terms of Turkey, of course, we also have a strong partnership on military procurement. The new capabilities of our naval army come
[1231.82-1251.86]  from Turkey, they have been also in Constanza in the middle of August. We have the national celebration for our naval army. And it was also a moment to show practically to the citizens that partnership as well. Yes. Thank you.
[1254.29-1272.10]  Recently, like we have seen Turkey and Saudi Arabia have made some defense agreement with Pakistan, keeping in view of Pakistan's military capacity. So, in order to defend Romania, other than European Union, are you considering any such defense agreement with any other country, other than European Union?
[1272.10-1289.90]  Well, we do have, as a core security guarantee on our side, the fact that we're part of NATO and all allies rely on each other. That's one thing. Inside the European Union, we're looking at the complementarity with NATO. And, of course, we're working on
[1289.90-1319.20]  specific partnerships. And I'm going to give an example that is different than the core military partnerships. It's in a different area. But it is an example of how we handle partnerships in terms of mitigating risks. For example, we also see risks of hybrid interferences. And that's why cybersecurity for us is very important. And we have, we've announced at the Munich Security Conference the trilateral partnership in the Odessa Triangle between Romania, Ukraine, and Moldova on cybersecurity.
[1319.20-1343.57]  We work a lot with United States as well in the private sphere in connecting our companies in tech and cybersecurity because the Romanian exports on cybersecurity are respected worldwide for their capacity as individuals but also in the private sphere in organizations. We're also suppliers on NATO procurement procedures on that in many cases. So that's an area where we're focused on it.
[1343.57-1358.16]  But now because you mentioned Pakistan, I also want to say here something that I've said in our bilateral conversations to the Minister of Foreign Affairs that I appreciate Pakistan's role in mediation that I think is very important. Thank you.
