UNREVIEWED MACHINE TRANSCRIPTION of the English audio/interpretation track. Not an official UN record. Speaker identities are not inferred. Verify against the recording. QUALITY REVIEW REQUIRED: 1 cues have low-confidence or repetitive-text indicators.
https://webtv.un.org/en/asset/k1k/k1ksgzw8qb

[0.78-32.48]  Am I just the quematimal of the Netherlands and the UN Secretary General Special Advocates on Financial Health? But I'm Jacqueline Mughal, the President of the International Organization of Employers. I call her Madam President because we don't have many. So every opportunity I get, I use it. Ms. Christine Ferret, the Executive Director at the rise. Mr. Michael Wieger.
[32.48-60.91]  Director of the Inclusive Financial Services Gates Foundation. His Excellency, Mr. Claret Corner, the Minister of Public Health, Social Development and Labor of the Government of Saint Martin. Excellences, Distinguished Ladies and Gentlemen, Friends and Holies. It is a pleasure to welcome you to this event.
[61.42-91.44]  For more than a century, the ILO has worked to advance social justice, and we all know that this is a foundation for universal and lasting peace. As the only tripartite United Nations agency, the ILO brings together governments, employers, and workers to develop labor standards, to also develop policies and programs that promote this network for all.
[91.89-121.20]  Today's discussion speaks directly to this vision as recognized in the Doha Political Declaration of the Second World Summit for Social Development. This and work is a pillar of sustainable development. This and work is more than employment. It is about ensuring that work provides security.
[121.65-150.40]  dignity, opportunity and hope for a better future. Yet millions of workers with follow-ups continue to struggle with rise and living costs and earnings that are insufficient to meet their needs. Financial insecurity remains widespread, making it difficult for workers to manage their expenses.
[150.40-180.32]  absorb unexpected shocks, stay for the future, and achieve long-term financial health. These challenges are particularly severe among workers in low-paid, temporary, part-time work, and other non-standard forms of employment. Women, young people, migrants, are disproportionately affected. Financial stress affects their well-being, and it also affects enterprise performance.
[180.32-210.42]  through lower productivity, higher absenteeism, and reduced engagement. Excellences, friends, colleagues, these notes the following three points. First, digitalization of which the immense has driven financial inclusion in many countries. And thanks to the efforts of those of us in this room, it has made payroll more efficient, transparent, more secure, and accurate.
[210.42-239.44]  while also supporting enterprise modernization, formalization, and increased access to finance, particularly for SMEs. For workers, digital wage payments have also created pathways to a wider range of financial services. New technologies have expanded opportunities to deliver products such as savings, wage access, insurance, and so many more, especially for workers.
[239.44-267.89]  who traditionally have been underserved by the financial sector. Second, the transition to digital which remains can be a powerful platform for advancing workers' financial health, including connecting them to financial services that better meet their needs. But any discussion on the role of workplace financial services must be grounded.
[267.89-297.57]  in the recognition that living wages, social protection and respect for workers rights, remain the primary foundation for workers' financial security and wellbeing. They must complement broader efforts in line with ILO principles and be informed by the needs of workers and their families as well as the economic realities. Third,
[297.57-327.54]  and as I close. Realizing this potential requires a responsible approach. Workplace financial services must comply with national labour, financial and data protection regulations. It must be accompanied by strong safeguards and worker protections, and be supported by financial education and meaningful engagement with workers and employers.
[327.66-357.26]  Success, therefore, requires collaboration among enterprises, workers and employers organizations, financial service providers, regulators, researchers, and of course, development partners. If we get it right, distinguished ladies and gentlemen, the workplace can become more than a place where wages are paid. It can become a platform for advancing the financial health.
[357.26-395.87]  of millions of workers all over the world while helping those guys to become more productive. With these words from the item, I now invite Mr. Michael Wigan to give his remarks before we go into the fireside chat. Michael?
[395.87-425.07]  colleagues and friends. Thank you very much. Thanks to the ILO for organizing this event and bringing us all together to ask an important question, which is how can the digitization of wages help increase financial inclusion and financial health of millions of workers around the world? We've been a very proud early sponsor of the ILO's Global Center for Digital Wages for Keysight Work.
[425.07-453.55]  And we really value the collaboration and amazing work that they've done. It's clear that the digitization of wages can increase financial inclusion. And since 2011, we have more than 2 billion adults in low and middle income countries have come into the formal financial system. And 43% of them say that they opened the account to receive wages or government payments. So we know it drives financial health.
[453.55-483.74]  And even just the digitization of wages does drive financial health. In R.C., as an example, an R.C.T. of government workers in Bangladesh, shown that those that receive their wages digitally had twice the level of formal savings as those that get paid in cash. And the ability of them to respond immediately with an instant payment back to their families in a remote part of the country.
[483.74-511.42]  to respond to an emergency gives greater control and agency to those women over their life. So that alone has been a fantastic development. But there's more that we can do. Now have the opportunity to provide a wider range of financial products to employees through the employers, savings, pensions, credit, insurance.
[511.42-539.86]  And the logic for this is quite clear, right? It dramatically lowers the cost of sales and origination credit losses in the cases of loans, elections, or claims payments. The cost of the financial service provider is dramatically lower if they can work through the employer to deliver these products and collect payment directly from the employer. Therefore,
[539.86-569.66]  Those service providers should be able to provide those products at a much lower cost and at a greater scale than they do today, benefiting the workers to have access to these greater products at a lower cost. And there should be a benefit to the employers and as well. We already see with digitization of wages, the cost of administering payroll is cut by more than half.
[569.66-599.68]  But with these other products and services being offered, they should greatly increase employee retention, as well as reducing the amount of absenteeism for workers that have to respond to financial emergencies at home. So we're very excited to promote this work. We're working with RISE and BSR. The theory is great. We really need to test, do,
[599.68-626.37]  Do the financial service providers pass on those savings in the terms of our costs? Does it, in fact, improve retention and reduce activism so that we can promote it and get widespread adoption? But thank you all for joining us today. Thank you, Your Majesty, for your tremendous leadership on financial health. And we look forward to working together with all of you to continue to drive.
[626.37-665.01]  financial inclusion and financial health for workers around the world. We're doing very well on time. Excellences, distinguished ladies and gentlemen friends, it's really an honour to moderate this fireside. You can ask with the fire. So imagine with me.
[665.01-697.01]  the UN, this beautiful room with an excellent view. That doesn't need imagination. It's a beautiful room. But imagine there's a fire, right? Cozy. And we're having a chance with Queen. Are you there? So we have a queen of an adolescent, Queen Maxima with us. Not just the queen, we have a female president.
[697.55-729.30]  of the international organization. Okay, I will imagine it. So we're going to have a fire chat. You can't see the fire, but it's there. And it's really to break down, you know, concretely. Some of the issues that are worrying you raised and why we're here. It's noted during the remarks. Financial inclusion has reached historically high level.
[729.78-763.20]  in thanks to the efforts on many of the particularly by Maxima who has really taken this off. It has not translated into financial health as we require. So what we have to do is how do we make this happen? Are you excited? Great. More energy. Oh, let me.
[763.20-808.91]  Welcome to Manchester State, Queen Maximus of the Netherlands to please take her seat. Excellency, Madam President, please take your seat by the fire sign. We know the challenges. We know the opportunities. But more importantly, we recognize that the workplace is becoming an important entry point.
[808.94-846.42]  to address this issue. Because employers have a stake, workers have a stake, you all have a stake. And so I'm going to go straight on. And you help me with time management, right? So can we give all our speakers and our applause because there will be no majesty. I'll start by addressing the first question to you.
[847.47-874.19]  Why has the issue of financial help become a pressing global agenda? And how is this affecting different groups? Let me start by saying a couple of thanking you and then having us here. I love the two introductions and it actually sort of harmonizes the importance of actually people that, you know, with their labor.
[874.19-899.60]  and they can actually get more back to their money. So I think that we're here for it. And the issue of financial health, frankly, it actually started a long time ago. The whole reason of financial inclusion came from the fact that, you know, whatever I wanted to give people the possibility to save. I have to start by giving them an account first, you know. So that was basically in 2007. We actually adjusted that. And we said...
[899.60-926.22]  John, this issue, you know, access to financial services. I mean, I don't know, being sort of the title that I got in 2000, I have a separate general to inclusion, which is basically to give access to financial services to people. Now, it's been a lot of success, but we do realize is that, you know, in this access, we've actually really improved the inclusion to people in the economic lives and, you know, Michael was actually still mentioning.
[926.22-947.46]  how people actually facilities serve actually in the government industry and by the day, so that we sort of once a month was every two weeks, you know, rows of people and what actually that entails and women having, you know, be feeling insecure, being stolen and all the fact that they can actually send that money frictionless to their families in the rural areas. It's been amazing now.
[947.46-971.12]  has it really translated into financial health is a question? I've seen places where instead of actually getting innovation on savings, which is probably the first reason to actually having this extra financial services, we've seen a plethora of consuming credit, digital credit, and I'm getting a little bit more of a indebted and less.
[971.12-994.40]  innovation on the savings side, there has been some, but less innovation on the savings side, less innovation on asset creation type of credits, the mortgages. I've seen much less innovation on the sum innovation, but not really that scaled up on the insurance side. So those are the type of things I would like to see. And I think it's good to
[994.40-1021.01]  both a little bit and actually define what is financial health so we all have the same sort of you know level in the comprehensive what do we really mean and financial health has four components. Number one is how is a person able to manage the day-to-day finances and how can we actually help them give them some kind of a budgeting sort of tool. I was speaking to a bank in Mexico.
[1021.01-1046.06]  and they actually now every time you get your income they put in different pockets and you're just so actually for the electricity for your rent because you've actually seen it instead of the historical you actually have to do and then what's over is your disposable money that you can actually so you never get into trouble and even then they're going to say well you're spending too much money in your phone you could actually don't save on that you know these are things we're actually talking about we're talking about sort of
[1046.06-1075.44]  For example, there's more to alone in the United States to actually replace the overdraft. In order to get that liquidity, sometimes you just do not make it. So that's also very important. And in general liquidity. So that's number one. Number two resilience. How are you capable in fact of any shocks, health shocks, income shocks, climate change shocks, health shocks?
[1075.44-1104.00]  And that, of course, is a case of all types of insurance, you know, crop insurance, to, you know, health insurance, life insurance, et cetera. But a very political component of that is actually a emergency savings, you know. But it's a buffer. But first, you know, one to three months of income, both of it are having a case of anything. You know how there's more than 40% of Americans that do not have $400 in case of an emergency? And that means...
[1104.00-1134.72]  that if your car breaks down, you kind of fix it and you kind of go to your job and therefore you might actually lose your job. So these are very, very important issues. One tenth of people in the UK, no savings at all, even 300 pounds. And of course this is very much the case in all the world. So I just, with that, I want to say how universal this is. The emergency savings is a first step to the next thing, which is your long-term dreams, where to build a house.
[1134.72-1151.86]  I don't even pretend that you want to sort of invest in something that's going to generate more income than tertiary education of your children. Even the next school fees and the next office of September, even for a lot of people that it's long time to start with.
[1151.86-1180.88]  So, you know, I was yesterday speaking to the CEO of a Kenyan back, and I know that school fees are one of the biggest issues in for families and houses in Kenya, and it's like it surprises them every August. And I said, you know, why are you not designing every month for every week? You put a little piece of the time it gets to August, that money is there, and that heading is great. So this long term thing is very important because one of the big issues is retirement and pensions.
[1180.91-1207.66]  And that is a big, big issue. Now, the fourth issue is a very subjective one. And it's, you know, what is your confidence? And why is this important, because if you have financial stress, that has an effect on multiple levels of your life. And to start with other workflows. We know that in the US, people of financial stress lose seven hours in a 40-week work.
[1208.02-1235.57]  And of course, employers, $184 billion. Accidents, we know we have research that says, you know, our truck drivers when they have financial stress, they end up having sort of very preventable accidents. And they're also called to employ us for the employee themselves. So this is a very important issue for both, you know, employers and employees in terms of productivity, in terms of mental health.
[1235.57-1258.86]  into the family relations. I do not need to tell you the relation between financial stress and family stress. So I'm able to think long term on the world being on your whole family. So I think this is a very important issue. And why the work for this is important? Because people spend a lot of time on it. Is a place where they get their income.
[1258.86-1282.30]  And we have a lot of research saying, you know, even the end of the state, 76, I mean, basically from all the work for say they find that their employer have much more trust than any other organization around them. So this daily connection with your employer and they can accelerate this. It's a fantastic place to start discussing these things.
[1282.30-1309.90]  So, for example, in the Netherlands, we have a foundation or coalition of private sector and employers and actually they share best practice that to have a social fund in place of emergencies process. Do we help them to do some savings? How do we help them when they get into sort of trouble? What are early detection and early warning signs? So this is something that is the reason why being here at the ILO is very important to talk about.
[1310.86-1341.55]  Thank you so very much for setting concretely the urgency of the agenda and what the implications are. A lot of figures, I'm sure you heard a lot of those figures across the board as to the implications of financial health for the last year or so. I will not quickly go to you and I'm President Jacqueline Mughal. What does this look like?
[1342.35-1373.58]  And how does this affect employers? Thank you. My sister sent her for that important question. It's a pleasure to be here this morning and to have this very important conversation from an employer's perspective. And as I was listening to Her Majesty giving her very useful input. But think within the context of Kenya, which is a developing country and see myself. So why do people really work?
[1373.94-1403.15]  you know, and the dream is that it would make my change in life, it would be able to say. It's difficult to talk about the financial health of the individual employee without looking at the initial health of the enterprise. And that perhaps is the dimension and led to, as a complementary aspect of the very extremely important aspects that Her Majesty described.
[1403.15-1433.44]  Because financially, we have the enterprises are better able to sustain different jobs, to pay better wages, and also to help improve livelihoods. It's particularly important when we consider the MSMEs and in a country such as Kenya, which was mentioned, which is a reflection of most of the developing world, that 90% of enterprises globally and around 70% of employment is actually in the informal sector.
[1433.44-1462.80]  And this is a very, very stressed segment of the working population with very limited financial buffers. And we see this very, very clearly as people's tobacco. I don't really just put bread on the table. So each of the settings does not matter, because we don't even have enough to make an estimate. According to World Bank statistics, about 46% of Ken and SMEs
[1462.80-1490.03]  You don't actually survive in the first year, and about 80% of them collapse within five years. So when we talk about financial health, it's really very difficult to look at it without looking at the financial health, also the enterprises. The two closely connected, they're interlinked, they're mutually real policy. So if you strengthen the financial health of the Sun, in a way you also need to look at the financial health of the enterprises.
[1490.03-1519.30]  And we need here to build a retinue of knowledge, the tools and capacity to anticipate the current pressures for this project very well, and also the unexpected shocks. We're going through some of them. Right now in Kenya, we don't know what we mean, we live onto the world and there's shocks. That's really to bring to families that are struggling. So how do we need a short financial help with this area? For the employer, the financial health of an employee, we eat things a lot of the sense.
[1519.30-1549.04]  Because as the ministry rightly pointed out, if someone is financially stressed, they're not able to apply themselves on the job. They may not even present themselves on the job. They cannot come. But if they come, and they're really present, and they're productive, what are they going through? So it makes a lot of sense for the employer to be able to contribute to this. There are lots of initiatives that are happening, and that's helping people manage their money better. But in reality,
[1549.23-1578.59]  Because of all the taxes that governments are imposing, employers are ironically struggling to be compliant. Because according to Ken and law, for instance, an employee should take home at least one third of their earnings. People have loans. They have fees. They're looking up to their families. All the money is deducted. And so the family themselves, not being compliant with the law and military government, could come up because the employees expressed.
[1578.59-1607.22]  So it makes a lot of sense for employers to help their careers manage their money, but it means initially that you pay at this age that allows you to create new business issues and then also to say, I need these other requirements. So it kind of seems very clear that financial access is not the same as financial health and the thing this has been emphasized. This is true. Around 85% of adults have access to formal financial services.
[1607.22-1635.62]  It's only around 18%. I consider financially healthy in my country, Kenya. That's really ironic. 18% is a very small segment. So this tells us something very important, that access to financial products is not enough. People also need the knowledge and capacity to plan, to manage day-to-day expenses and to prepare for shocks and understand the options that are available to them.
[1635.62-1665.14]  We might also recall something that is very important. The fact that work as financial effects employers does not mean that responsibility by natural health is transferred. But it is not the interest given responsibility alone. Financial health I think depends on a broader ecosystem. Governments have a primary role in ensuring effective
[1665.14-1694.11]  and sustainable social protection systems during COVID, the developing world, it became very clear that this was a very weak area, had really had anything like social protection. So governments had to have a keynote to play the end. We have a role in supporting formalization and strengthening access to education and financial connectivity, and increasingly the health is also being added there, access to basic health services.
[1694.11-1724.16]  which is where people's money goes, goes to food, goes to food, goes to food, goes to food, goes to food, goes to food, goes to food, goes to food, goes to food, goes to food, goes to food, goes to food, goes to food, goes to food, goes to food, goes to food, goes to food, goes to food, goes to food, goes to food, goes to food, goes to food, goes to food, goes to food, goes to food, goes to food, goes to food, goes to food, goes to food, goes to food, goes to food, goes to food, goes to food, goes to food, goes to food, goes to food, goes to food, goes to food, goes to food, goes to food, goes to food, goes to food, goes to food, goes to food, goes to food, goes to food, goes to food, goes to food, goes to food, goes to food, goes to food, goes to food, goes to food, goes to food,
[1724.16-1754.03]  where appropriate and where they have the capacity to information through financial education and access to responsible solutions, but we also need to recognize the reality of the business landscape. Most enterprises are enemies they need, and then simply cannot have the same financial or residential capacity as larger, more financially stable enterprises. So this is where mistakes arrive.
[1754.48-1783.04]  I think workers, employers, and governments all benefit from financially healthy people, and they take up prices and stronger economies. But these responsibilities are different for employers. This is not about taking a responsibility for any individual's financial decisions, nor about substituting for the role of government. It is really about record housing that worker financial health matters for the workplace.
[1783.04-1800.00]  while ensuring that each afternoon in the ecosystem plays the role of entities best pleased to be and for which it is responsive. Thank you so very much, Madam President, for just building on what...
[1800.00-1824.94]  majesty, but we say, and also, really written with buttons for wages, the wage mechanism, and social protection. I've been very generous with both of you on a tangy. You're a majesty.
[1824.94-1848.88]  I'm worried, yeah, we did to those in open statements. In your Majesty, you have two minutes. Why is the workplace well positioned to help advance financial health? I think I just said it. I think that's, you know, the Dutch points and, you know, the trust that we're employers actually have in their employees have been employers is actually very important.
[1848.88-1878.27]  But I think, you know, Madam President actually sort of touched up on a couple of points when I talk about financial health and also talk about financial health, also the enterprise. And I do not see the one actually goes together with the other. Certainly, I mean, that's something that has to be when I go to countries. I mean, I was just in Indonesia. And you're also Madam President on the same level position. They're working very close to the government.
[1878.27-1907.68]  to actually assure the exactly that sort of, you know, and financial health of the companies and financial health of the employers, but it has to be an older government and another private sector. So this issue of actually having a broader ecosystem and, you know, what role does taxes play in this whole thing? And how much there's incentives for more savings or less savings? I think that's a very, very crucial aspect. I think it's also a question of design of financial products.
[1907.68-1930.85]  And also the responsibilities of, you know, what is, you know, a plethora of bad consumer credit that are digital and actually, you know, probably going to have trouble. And looking into issues that are more like health insurance, how do we actually come up with a health insurance that is actually accessible for everybody and that is really still responding to the necessities of the people?
[1930.85-1957.68]  because I mean an employer will not be able to solve all of the health issues of the employees. That's pretty clear. So and all of government and with the private sector sort of I think it's the only way to solve this issue. I'd like to say something very small about knowledge and just as access to financial services is not a predictor of financial health knowledge isn't either.
[1957.68-1985.31]  As nobody somebody has knowledge, but it gets offered very bad products, the outcome is still going by. Also, we think that we are all rational people, but the reality is we're social animals and we tend to do what other people do. We have other people doing the wrong thing, so we have to think about details that actually the right thing to do. And that's a little bit of behavioral sciences that we need to do.
[1985.31-2012.08]  in the type of, you know, if we digitize the wages, one of the things we've actually been doing in the UK, and also in the US, the thing about doing here in the Netherlands, is, okay, we set aside part of that wage into savings immediately. And we're trying to look in the Netherlands, okay, it's four, we're going to put 40 years on the side, and I'm, as an employer, going to give you 10 years more. And did you have that emergency savings?
[2012.08-2040.61]  So getting that sort of default and in the UK it's been amazing. We've actually done these pilots and it's actually, and it's not an opt-in, it's not an opt-in, because otherwise nobody wants to fill in the form. So you have to build a form you want to sort of, you know, not use this tool. But it's been people that never saved before, all of a sudden were saving. And then when they get to save, the motivation starts getting in. And they say, you know, if I could save this, I couldn't save it, maybe even more. And this...
[2040.61-2067.73]  creates a virtual circle that is actually very, very important. And it is about looking into, I mean, we were just talking about the garment industry. We've seen employers in Indonesia that decided to do something with the financial health of their employees, because they were actually having money lenders coming over outside of the gates for their factories.
[2067.73-2097.30]  And, you know, no reward to needs a place. I mean, so at one point it became sort of a necessity for employee. So I think this issue has to have more importance. And it's not absolutely the responsibility, but it's something that is actually very effective if employers actually take on and it's sort of a shared responsibility for sure. So I would say in a nutshell, sorry, I was too long already.
[2098.16-2120.88]  Thank you so very much. I was trying to use different antics to get them. And she got the message. No, thank you so very much. There's so many interesting things. I mean, really, we needed more time to be able to fully benefit from the expertise, the experiences that our Manchester would have presented and had already presented.
[2120.88-2149.46]  But we'll need to match on with time. But I like thinking this and what you just said, and what you said earlier, about the need for more innovation in terms of the products, whether it's in terms of asset building, in terms of insurance, in terms of different products. And I'll try to prevent myself from making comments to us to save on time. Madam Mugho, we have two amendments. Specifically the capacities of enterprises.
[2149.58-2175.97]  in different locations. What's the role of employers? You already admitted to some of them. So if you could just keep the mail, quick points, what is their role? Emperors really can be seen in many different ways. I think the reality is that the workplace is the place where financial stress is often felt, employers have a relationship with their workers, people spend eight hours or more at the workplace.
[2175.97-2202.35]  But the workplace also varies because when we talk about workplace, yes, there's those large enterprises that have payroll systems, they have HR departments. But the bank of them are small ones that don't have anybody responsible for HR or responsible for payroll. So you have to look at this broad spectrum of variety of workplaces to be able to come up with solutions. But the employer can do a lot in terms of education.
[2202.35-2232.24]  Helping employees be aware about money, their money, helping them deal in the psychosocial issues and the challenges that they face. And a lot is being done by employers in this way on financial education. So a large enterprise, of course, we have greater capacity than a smaller one. So the employer's contribution, I think, has to be practical. It has to be proportioning to the responsibilities and also adapting the capacity of that particular enterprise.
[2232.24-2261.90]  That is why my view supporting the enterprises is as much a part of the solution as supporting the employee as well. So employers play an effective role but they need a strong and amazing business environment around them. Governments have a fundamental responsibility here. It's one of the key roles that employers play to engage governments to impress upon them some of the impact of the ladies and tacksers for ministers and employees which are good.
[2261.90-2289.62]  But if it plays a way to housing, a way to health, a way to all these others, really earlier, but not actually accessing those services, they're not only difficult position to be in, and it's a conversation that it was otherwise placed behind in the government. So partnerships are important to this particular area. There are one place to specifically answer you kindly are powerful bridge, but that bridge will look different across countries and across enterprises.
[2290.16-2323.28]  Thank you so very much. Now it's rapid fire. That will be two questions to each of you. And we have to wrap up in five minutes. I'll start with your majesty. We recognize that emerging, what please financial services provide opportunities. The rapid fire question, one minute, what conditions and safeguards need to be put in place? Well.
[2323.28-2343.23]  I think one of the conditions is that the enterprise in itself has its capacity to be able to do so. I mean, it's very clear. We also have this one and meet us very small enterprises in the Netherlands that actually, how do I start that? I have two or three employees. I have to juggle the finances, the HR.
[2343.23-2370.56]  So I think that one of the issues that we need to do is on a national level, great tools for these micro and small enterprises to do this sort of, you know, in a very quick way and an easy way and actually having partnership with financial institutions and actually offer those person the right way. It will not be able to have large schemes for the income. He said that's very understandable. But also, you know, the having.
[2370.56-2400.43]  I think that's a very big issue that you know we need to start measuring financial health in a population from a survey perspective. So if the government level that we need to have sort of you know the measurement would actually get a lot of measurement from an police perspective on with fair days and that has looked to provide a lot of the insight what is actually worrying them. So that actually sort of being police can actually pay them at the right time sometimes and then changing the payment style etc. Or helping them on the two of you know groups themselves. So I think
[2400.43-2428.72]  Measurement actually because you know that and the same thing goes sort of for narcissist providers which is probably not a conversation we're having in this in this poor up but they need to know for example I mean very one of the biggest countries in the Netherlands they said to me well you know and work in national champions of saving on an average as like you know but they started looking into it and one fifth didn't save and then they realized okay well the caveats and they start designing a new person now you know little by little but started to save so I think measurement
[2428.72-2456.34]  And again, sort of measurement tools and tools for the small and micro enterprises will be very important and the participle financial service providers will be extreme. But creating coalitions on a national level will be very important and creating know how measurement tools and also best practices on a global level will be. Madam President.
[2458.42-2483.44]  There's a lot to say and try and be precise. First, I think we need the infrastructure as a tool, so that's been said. These solutions need to be used as centered and grounded in the realities of those expecting to use them. You should also remember that many of these solutions are actually developed with businesses and delivered by businesses. So they are responding to a need, but they also need
[2483.44-2509.79]  visible business model. So you need models that work, you need to protect trust them. The turning, therefore, is how to have solutions which are designed around the needs of users within care and responsible regulatory frameworks while preserving the conditions for businesses you innovate, invest, and grow. For instance, in Kenya now, you can get all sorts of loans. Very easy. I mean, people are all about it.
[2509.79-2542.54]  They have so much money which they just take it but they have no capacity to pay it back. So we need to educate them and help them and this technological solutions also need to go in education and help people really need to money. So it's a two-pronged approach. In one word, what shows the partnership to make this happen?
[2543.22-2586.32]  work. Your Majesty. Ambition? Ambition? Ambition. I am President. Welcome. Welcome all, pragmatic ambition. Can we just give a round of. And I must say that I found it difficult to stop because so many as I did, where we put on the table. Thank you so very much.
[2586.32-2623.49]  for the bridge work done for sharing your expertise, experience, and also providing us with very concrete ways to scale up and enhance the impact. So with this, once again, thank you very much. Your Majesty, three, three lives in the other part of the program. Thank you.
[2623.49-2654.16]  Excellent. All right. That's a tough act to follow. We'll have to move on and see how we advance this agenda. My name is Craig Churchill. I work for
[2654.16-2680.77]  the National Organization in Geneva, where I leave our work on social finance or finance, uh, responsible finance for decent work. Um, so this is how we look at how the financial sector can advance, uh, their items to work agenda, how can banks, insurers, investors focus and contribute to creating jobs and improving working conditions. And in that context, um,
[2680.77-2709.79]  We've been working with the Gates Foundation on a initiative on digital wage payments and trying to find ways in which we can get employers to pay their workers into their bank accounts, or to make cards. And then realizing that that's not enough. They need to not just have access into their bank accounts, but they need to use it. They need to not just take all their money out of payday, for example, and then use cash.
[2709.79-2738.02]  This has been a really interesting sort of journey that we've been on over the past five, six years. I'm trying to advance this digital wage agenda. And it's really led into this whole financial health conversation, which you've heard a great overview of from the fireside chat. What we're going to do now is we've got two panels. We're going to start first with the panel that's going to sort of
[2738.02-2767.55]  delve into this idea of financial health in more detail, really trying to flesh out what it means in practice, and what are the tools and products and services that are on offer in order to advance the financial health and how it can benefit both workers and employers. And then after that panel, we're going to have another panel that's going to look into one particular product in specific detail, this earned wage access, the idea of
[2767.55-2802.19]  being able to access money that you've already earned before payday. And it's not a loan, it's accessing your own money that you already earned before payday. So these are the two panels that we have upcoming. And to the start, I'd like to invite Christine Schauer to rise to lead her panel.
[2802.19-2829.58]  You can see Tim that you can decide which organisation you've had today. Sorry. Okay. So it's no longer a fireside challenge. We are getting down into the real practical pieces now. And I've got a great panel with me. So I am Christine Svaram, the Executive Director of Rice. You've all been prepared a couple of people talking about.
[2829.58-2858.30]  and work on you for doing quite a bit in the government sector. But we are a collaborative platform working with, thank you, with global, with global brides and suppliers across the government and footwear sector. We also work in it so great to be here at ILO, with workers' representative groups and local partners. And we really focus on partners' discussion at the last panel.
[2858.30-2887.52]  what happens to low income men and women in that apparel sector. And we are huge fans of the workplace as a space for change. Everything we do senses around the change we can create at the work face level. We look at a number of issues that that affect workers. Anything from harassment and violence to women's leadership to health and financial health is right at the center of everything that we do. And it is.
[2887.52-2917.14]  So because it comes back to it, it was slightly touched on it in the previous panel. So that really is sensual contract that you have between an employee and an employer. That exchanges of time for wages. And so making sure that that is not the most part of it. That's why it's so important to what we do. Ten years ago, we started looking at digital wages and how we might be able to expand on that.
[2917.14-2943.57]  previous panels that talked about the way that digital wages and the apparel industry that we've been working with has been one of the first ones to really pick it up and scale at the cost everywhere where they're going. Just to give you an example, when we started in 2019, and I was sharing with you earlier, we spent about three years looking on doors in Cambodia, trying to get employers to switch wages from clash to digital.
[2943.57-2969.41]  I think that we're around, when we started 22% of all export-facing factories in Cambodia, we had their wages digitized. And then 78% hadn't. That number has completely flipped. There's been a concerted effort, A, from industry, from supplier groups, from global brands, but also from government, Lionel, and from others in this space to really drive a huge change.
[2969.41-2998.54]  And the number now is 75% and that is only rising and the government is aiming for 100% of bacteria to take. So we know that, you know, when you bring industries together, we certainly solve that for us, when we bring fashion and finance together, we can create scale and change. That's unprecedented. So what have we learned? I'm going to highlight, you've heard everyone go through before the different, the four different ingredients that makes for financial health.
[2998.54-3028.85]  The kind of three things that we've learned in that process is, one, you need market resolutions, but market resolutions that are centered around the needs and priorities and financial behaviors of workers. The products need to be tailored to and adapted to your new market. Second, when you combine the access to financial services with the financial education that
[3028.85-3054.35]  Neil's confidence and knowledge and trust. I'm hoping we're going to come back to trust a little bit. It was touched on before, but when we started the work, yes, there was trust in the employer and not one single government worker that we engaged with trusted a bank. They did not want their money. They wanted their money in their hand. They didn't want it to be put somewhere else, which is why the first thing that happened was everyone walked through the ATM and took out all of their money as a living group.
[3054.35-3078.56]  The third lesson that we've learned is that you need a clear business case at all levels. You need a clear business case for the individual in our case, government workers and their families. You need a clear business case for industry at supplier level and all the way through the chains and you need a clear business case for financial service providers. Now in this case we're gaining a whole new market.
[3078.56-3104.43]  We've got good foundations to be building on and I've got a panel with me of pioneers that are looking to go even further than that. And so the opportunity ahead of us now is that fourth element of financial health that previous panels touched upon. How do you get the confidence and the kind of time horizon to be able to pursue your long term financial aspirations?
[3104.43-3133.06]  That's some of the stuff that we're going to dig into. So I am joined today by Robert Slaga, his vice president, strategic account executive at the start of Global. I've got Lewis, one list who's also vice president and research and insight at the master cut center for inclusive growth. I've got Emily Chan, who's the only one who's not vice president on this panel. She can packed officer at stream and Jenny Kim, who's.
[3133.06-3161.81]  vice president and at general and so welcome everyone. I'm not a vice president so I'm feeling quite left out here. I'm going to start with you. The sense of truth with both and master has long been a prominent champion for financial health and I remember you guys were saying no it's not about inclusion it is about the long term financial health but years before there's kind of caught none to that.
[3161.81-3191.57]  And you've been doing that by bringing together the ecosystem that the last panel actually just left us. It brings together the private sector, governments, nonprofits and researchers to really accelerate the use of both. So if we continue to think about that ecosystem, what is it in your experimentalist that becomes possible when you combine these stakeholders in lifting the aspiration of financial health? Thanks so much for having us.
[3191.57-3220.58]  I think, you know, first of all, we've been on this journey with you as we rise on wage digitalization. You know, you talked about knocking on those doors. Now it seems as if people are bought in, right, and the data really playing it out. But just to kind of maybe hone in on that example a little bit, you know, we've been working together with rise on wage digitalization across a few markets more recently, Cambodia and Indonesia and Guatemala and
[3220.58-3248.03]  You know, just to give you a sense of the scale in a place like Cambodia, the garment industry represents over 80% of formal employment. So the scale is there. And even in the program that we've been running together, we've reached 46,000 workers in terms of digitizing their wages. But that's not enough, right? You know, it's just the beginning. And so to your question in terms of.
[3248.03-3268.46]  What's the ecosystem you need to build to enable more of a journey towards financial health? And so, you know, and it's been really rich over the years in terms of trying to understand what that ecosystem really moves to look at, look like, to prevent financial resilience and natural health.
[3268.46-3296.93]  you know, they're oftentimes trusted relationships for workers. We have financial service providers, which are going to hear about from today that are building that kind of digital infrastructure and the products. We have community organizations, Christine, you talked so much about what's the worker lens in terms of building products that are tailored and not just cookie cutter really respond to the needs.
[3296.93-3325.52]  researchers, right? There's a role in terms of trying to understand and really disaggregate what works and where are you falling short? That's an important piece in terms of kind of really understanding the impact and of course philanthropy where I sit with the MasterCard Center also plays a role in terms of being at risk capital. When you're knocking on those doors to have a proof point to be able to kind of expand the work. So I think that is those are the kinds of stakeholders that really.
[3325.52-3353.68]  come together to build that. And if you alluded to it too, Christine, where's the win-win-win? In terms of the win for workers, in terms of adding tools to build resilience, the win for financial service providers that are reaching new customers responsibly, and the win for the employers, in terms of having
[3353.68-3383.42]  a real stable workforce and all the benefits that comes from that. So again, simply providing that technology isn't enough. It's necessary and insufficient as we like to say. And we always talked about the trifecta of tech and touch and we add probably trust in that mix and how do you build that. And I think that ecosystem that you start building kind of build that. The tech provides the access.
[3383.42-3412.88]  touches the, you know, how do you build capabilities, get people using financial services, so they're not just cashing out, getting them building competences in their journey. And again, the trust, you know, if financial service providers are working together with employers, working together with NGOs and community groups, I try to understand the worker, that's kind of the foundation, I think, that needs to be built to make these models work.
[3413.42-3442.26]  I touch trust. There's the three good good words to remember as we think about the next frontier. Well, but I'm going to come to you at start a global and you were in slightly different markets that was describing here. But your people payroll and technology solutions providers are one of those pioneers, absolutely from our side. We're hoping to bring into the government factories. If we think about it from an employer's perspective.
[3442.26-3471.50]  How can payroll services benefit both their company and their workforce within it? And if I was an employee and you were going to give me advice, what are the top things that I have to consider when I embark on this journey? What would that be? Yeah, I first can start. I'm humbled that I'm a bald girl dad. So to have for excellence as a director, Madam President and the Queen shows as long side of all women up on this panel.
[3471.50-3500.38]  The girls now are daughters matter, so the bald girl that impumbled to be a part of such brilliant women in this, and I look forward to talking to my girls tonight at dinner about the power of being a girl as a bald girl that. So, you know, I think you bring it a really interesting point, because again, there's gains on all sides of this. If we clean up that employee, the employee benefits to having a professional payroll provider at any scale. He provides consistency in heading, good accuracy and timings.
[3500.38-3524.61]  which creates stability as we talk about these financial moments. It also provides tools because as we talked about, that employer, 70% of people believe them to be a trusted financial partner in their lives. But they have access to those tools, tools like financial guidance. They also are able to then gain in things like digital payments and digital payroll payments, financial educations, creating savings vehicles.
[3524.61-3553.94]  The opportunity to actually have someone to trust to teach us because we don't learn along the way. What does compound an interest mean or why do I pay $20 a month to a credit card and only 18 of it went to interest in two that went to the principal? I don't understand those. That's where you learn those lessons because again, life is about a lifelong learning and you learn that alongside of that trusted partner. There's also dozens of tools. We're going to talk about earned wages access in a little bit. That's a really powerful tool that is only accessible when you have.
[3553.94-3583.94]  professional partner along that way, because it truly is that partner. And as I think specifically around digital payments, businesses are paid digitally, or we strive to pay them digitally if mass requirements are to do that. And thus, why are we treating our employees differently than the way we're paid? If a business wants to be paid digitally, the employee deserves to be paid that same way. That also creates digital payroll with quicker wages, more accurate wages, all of that yields greater financial wellness. If I think about a business benefit standpoint, allowing your
[3583.94-3600.00]  You know, you do what you do, whether that's in the garment district, whether that's in financial services, whether that's a bakery somewhere. Do what you do well and hire us, like players like Strada or other professional payroll partners, to do what we do well. It's the idea of you trying to do what you do well. It increases productivity.
[3600.00-3628.66]  and increases efficiency. And again, to slow the moment down to some of the data we heard a little bit earlier, two thirds of employees were in financial stress to work every day. So I'm going to ask everyone to do a favor. Take the opportunity to look what, take the opportunity to look right, and look down at yourself. Who are you bringing financial stress to this moment right now? It could be you, and it might be your neighbor, or it could be both your neighbors and not you. That's a phenomenally powerful
[3628.66-3657.26]  polarizing statistic and the reiterate with the Queen of shared, you know, 18% loss in productivity when you bring that financial stress to work. That means if you're employing an employee today at five days, they're only working 24 because they're spending 20% of their week stressing about finance. When I think about what is a business gain from this and what should it consider in that payroll partnership, everything to me relies on sort of sits.
[3657.39-3684.43]  really sits big objectives, but really simple ones. It must be transformative. Is it transforming the way you're doing business today? Is it helping you transform out of potentially cash payments? But let's take it another way. Is it taking you out of check payments? Because again, check is almost almost feels like cash these days. Some of us don't even know how to cash checks anymore, you know? Some of us don't even have a physical bank to cash that. Let's also be honest. So it's got to be transformative.
[3684.43-3712.62]  It also must reduce those costs and errors. And those errors are felt on the employee side by NIST wages, but it's also very much felt on the compliance and regulatory side of those businesses. So there's tremendous pressure on achieving that and reducing those errors. It's got to be scaled in global in a moment. Because whether you're that bakery today that's only employing three people or a bar mid-district and buying a desk for Cambodia, it only takes one next big win as a business to open up a bakery across town.
[3712.62-3738.19]  We're all open up another facility across the globe. So it's got to be scalable. You've got to have a partner that can help you grow in that moment. You've got to drive better data quality and data protection. We trust our employers with our data. All of us do from financial to health into personal information that additional data protection and data quality matters. You want to eliminate a manual risk paying someone a cash paying someone as a check having people who don't do this for a living.
[3738.22-3766.96]  creates a lot of manual risk, remove that manual risk that's exactly important. You want to drive accuracy and timeliness? Could we talk about that? And then, so those are the six points, but all of that drives stability to the employee, financial wellbeing, financial health, and prototypical business. But I think most of all the business must help meet its employees at those life stages, and I think that's where a professional partner helps. You've got 14-year-olds in the workforce today who are helping to contribute to the financial wellbeing of their household.
[3766.96-3795.54]  You have 24-year-olds who are buying house for the first time. You have 34-year-olds who are buying cars for the first time. You have 44-year-olds who are having children for the first time. And you're having 54-year-olds that realize they're about 10 years away, hopefully, from retirement and starting to stay for that first time. So if you can create any opportunity to remove that distraction of financial stress and allow employers to be able to step in by providing professional partners that help do what they do well, they feel better supported.
[3795.54-3825.26]  Employees feel more strongly engaged, more productive. It leads to better retention, better loyalty. And honestly, at the end of the day, it creates a financial wellbeing structure that we all rely on. Thank you. Six points. Jenny, I'm coming to you as an employer. Our people in the government manufacturing space across many different markets, actually, many of the markets that Lewis was talking about before Guatemala, Indonesia, for example. About...
[3825.26-3854.19]  One year ago, I sat with you guys in a room, someone like this in New York, with emergency talking about the types of products and services. And we were mainly learning about what's happening in the US, but you're in one, you're headquartered in Korea, but operate everywhere else in the world. Took that back and said, what can we do? And so over the past year, you've piloted it and tested your own payroll savings program for your employees for Stitch.
[3854.35-3883.76]  Tell us a bit about what prompted you to develop that and how it works. And I think most importantly, why does it make sense for you as an employer of thousands and thousands of people to invest in their financial health? I'm glad to introduce our journey. The stage was starting with very simple questions. Yannani and Ikam, how can we make it easier for workers to build the financial security over time?
[3884.08-3912.78]  Financial waving is not only about the income as far as it is. It's also about managing money, building the savings and preparing for the investment. So rather than giving them one time benefit, we really try to create a practical way for our workers to clear a consistent saving habits even if they start losing. I think it's important to me as the firm.
[3912.78-3940.98]  Workers choose how much they want to save each month, and the bank pays an interest. But if they continue their savings for a poor year, Chen Wang as a management consultant here at the U.S. We have launched this program in our factories in India and the water market in November last year, and today almost 300 workers are participating.
[3940.98-3971.52]  And as we continue to introduce speech through the rights of training and online communication, it's so that participation in graduating students looks to reinforce the importance of continuous life and financial education and worker engagement. We're still beginning to see some meaningful changes in the beginning years. One of our workers who was that like before speech, she was saying whatever was read.
[3971.52-4000.74]  I have to spend paper with you. But now, saving is the first issue that is when she was six or seven. We have also heard from John Chris who used to rely on marketing or rather many expenses such as housing or tuition. That's through regular savings. Now they feel like better prepared when those expenses come out. So from here, we say that that's what financial resilience.
[4000.74-4031.20]  like in practice, moving from reacting to financial needs toward planning or like planning and preparing for that in advance. And from the business perspective, we also see the value of this value in this. Apparently manufacturing is a very super intensive business and I was hearing that experience workers are our
[4031.20-4059.42]  for competitive advantage. So when workers better like prepared, workers that better prepared financially, we really have that can also support a more like favorite workforce over time. So that's why we see this as a like long term investment in our picture and our business. And we are processing like an important milestone.
[4059.42-4087.38]  Our first participants will soon complete their first year of saving. The value of space goes beyond how much work per se, but what really matters is the experience of setting their own saving goals and achieving it. So we would like to use those first year experiences together with ongoing education to encourage our more workers to really think about
[4087.38-4117.20]  They are all saving orders and take the next step. I mean, take the first step. And our goal is not just to increase participants. It's like to hype our workers. The experts as a planner have been more in control of their future financial. Thank you.
[4118.19-4148.18]  Hearing an employer say that their workforces are core competitive edge and that you have to look after them is simple. So thank you for that. Emily, at stream. I'm going to come to you with a double sided question. I think you've integrated a range of payroll technologies across different settings. I'm interested in from your experience one. What kind of products and approaches work best? What have you seen work really well and then?
[4148.30-4173.30]  I want to bring it back to how do we change people's lives? What are the changes and shifts that we see? So what changes have you seen for the workers that are using your products and services? Christine, you know that's my favorite topic. I had a student sign as well. That's my job. Let me do the first half of your question first, and I want to start with the approaches and then get into the products.
[4173.33-4203.12]  I'm going to be a little bit technical, so to bear with me, but I'll try to make that part very fast. When we're talking about workplace finance, what we're actually talking about is thinking work with data and building financial services on top of that. And payroll technology, we've actually three separate keys with a tech that can sit underneath that, teaching you what you already know, Robert. But we're looking at three systems. So there's HR information systems, which tell you who an employee is, what the job is, what the rate of pay is amongst other information.
[4203.12-4230.99]  And you've got time in attendance, which tells you the hours and days that they're working. And then you've got payroll systems, which, amongst many other complex things, tell you when they're getting paid. When you combine those things together, what we can do in workplace finance app is we can show you, hey, you work today. That labor was worth $150 and 28 cents. In this pay period, you earn $800 and pay days on Tuesday. So that's kind of like, that's the ecosystem we need in this reactor.
[4230.99-4258.34]  And in that level of data, you can layer products from the box. And let's talk about phasing. It seems to be a favorite topic of conversation today. And so when you think about building savings on top of that data infrastructure, first thing you think about is, well, most people say they want to say, most people intend to say, but they find it very hard. So we built a default on proposition. And I was incredibly proud to hear Her Majesty from Maxima.
[4258.34-4286.83]  talk about payroll savings from the UK, that will work amongst others as well. But we worked really hard to make savings the default. So it's easier to save than not to save. There's less friction on the happy path if you don't want to save, there's more to that you have to take. And then you lean into that data that we're processing. So if you're an hourly worker and you earn $150.28, you say to you, what do you run down for 28 cents into savings?
[4286.83-4315.55]  Every shift you work to put the spare time, you put the change into savings. It makes it really accessible and easy to start. And if you detect, you've worked a bit more this week, you've earned more than usual. Why don't you reconnect? Put an extra 20 into savings. We're leaning into that volatility that works like data to help you give the thing you want to do. And then we connect it to the broader ecosystem. If you're already using a cashback or a discount through the app, the cashback note of savings, let's imagine you have a loan.
[4315.55-4342.82]  You know, you need a loan for whatever circumstances that you're trying to achieve or trying to resolve, but we encourage you to save as you borrow. So why don't you put a little of the savings every repayment, and then when your loan finishes, we'll convert your loan repayment into a savings contribution. If you were paying back $50 every pay period, now you're saving $50. You can rapidly build resilience. That's kind of the what, the kind of technology in me wants that makes that possible. And it's incredibly powerful.
[4342.82-4369.50]  And we've heard a lot of stories about business impact, so I'm not going to get too much into that. I like to measure amongst many things, feelings, right? I like to have people feel what they might be. Do you feel less stressed? Do you feel more in control? Do you feel hopeful? How are your relationships? But my favorite thing to measure is sleep. Are you sleeping better? And I looked at across
[4369.50-4398.74]  A data set of over 94,000 survey responses for 2025, so a pretty significant sample. 22% of people sleep better, right? More than one in five sleep better when they have a workplace finance ecosystem supporting them. That's huge. And what's really cool about that data is that we have a longitudinal set. We ask people that three months, nine months, 15 months, two years, three years, four years, five years, and that strengthens over time. But here now, shall we get a two-year point? You're at nearly four in 10.
[4398.74-4421.90]  39% are sleeping better. I don't need to tell you that that translates into a 35% increase in productivity at work or a boost in retention. You can hear just the fact that I'm sleeping better, that more than a fifth of your workforce are sleeping better. They are turning up. They're turning up more present. They're happier. They're sticking around for longer. So that's the art of the possible. Sleep.
[4421.90-4450.30]  You want to sleep, right? Better sleep at least. I think that's a good one for you Jenny, to take back. But it does come back to, and we've seen it time and time again, it changes in terms of absenteeism, it changes in terms of how long you stay somewhere. It changes what you were saying as your original kind of desire should want to be an employee of choice, somewhere some people want to be.
[4450.30-4477.52]  maybe now you need to ask them how they're feeling in terms of their sleep in your workplaces which would be an interesting thing to do. I'm going to wrap up this panel by asking each of you and you're going to outperform the previous panel in terms of being brief because I have absolutely confidence in you. Thinking about the two words that the previous panelists gave us ambition and workability.
[4477.52-4511.23]  in one sentence and not one of those sentences with lots of semicolons in it. But in one sentence, what excite you most about with a momentum or workplace financial health could take us over the next couple of years? Jenny, I'm going to start with you in one sentence.
[4511.23-4542.64]  and making like more confidence on their financial health. Right? Financial health is part of the business proposition for the government industry. I like that. Emily, I think there is genuine potential to make financial services work better for the working majority. When you connect employment income data to financial service technology, imagine what's possible. Thank you, Luce.
[4543.98-4570.29]  I think evidence and if we can get in the model right. The possibility is random. I think there's a real strong pathway using evidence. Great. So we've got a combination of things here. What do you want to finish on moving or? I think all of you who like heard my word that I was thinking against because I lost last one. To me it's possibility. So we're at a moment where we can transform. Hey into possibility.
[4570.29-4600.02]  Workplace financial health is finally moving to not a nice to have. It is the core of how we better serve our employees, create financial wellbeing, create healthy wellbeing and ultimately a better business strategy. Thank you for that. For me, it is always that opportunity for people to prosper, not just survive paycheck by paycheck. So with that, I'm going to hand it over to you and the next panel to land our session today.
[4626.35-4657.79]  Oh, we had two panels, which were almost entirely women. So this is the alternative, I guess, to protest or whatever. So I've got great panel here. These are three providers of earned wage access.
[4657.79-4686.82]  The idea that pentec companies that allow workers to be able to access money they've already earned before paid it. So imagine you have a on a monthly basis and you're halfway through the month. You should have access to half of the money. You should be able to get money. Half of the money you would or really get you should be able to access. But the painting isn't for two more weeks.
[4686.82-4716.27]  And so it's a FinTech solution that enables workers to be able to say, you know what? I've got to pay some bills. Can I get what I already have earned? Can I get access to it, please? And so these are the folks who help answer that call. And when I could clear, this is not a loan. This is just enabling workers to have access to money that they have already earned. It's their money.
[4716.34-4746.70]  It's just nearly to get it earlier than ordinarily would be able to. So given that, it's a pretty powerful tool, especially if there is a mismatch between your income and your expenses in terms of timing. This helps to smooth that timing issue. But it comes with some risks or challenges that we need to look at, we need to understand.
[4746.90-4779.73]  If we could start with Richard. Richard Kim from the Philippines. Asia. Asia. We operate in seven countries. Okay, excellent. So how do workers benefit from this service? And what safeguards do you have in place to make sure that Earnway to Access does not have a negative effect on workers' financial health? I think, frankly, it was part of the point that it's a time issue.
[4780.05-4808.83]  So, obviously, if you're a program worker, full-time workers, you can pay a weekly or once a month depending on the market. If you work as a part-time worker, they often get paid in 40 days. The month's work has been completed and it takes 10 more days for HR to be concerned, right? If you were a commission-based worker, they get paid even 60 days.
[4808.83-4838.77]  And every month, the amount could vary depending on how they did the previous month. So there's obviously a built-on way for you. So you do want an ability to access those money when you need it, right? And as you go into this money, you've already earned it, right? So one guard rate of the easiest one is actually setting the limit. And we usually limit 30% to 50% of the base salary.
[4838.86-4868.32]  not over time, not the bonuses. So you'll still have a meaningful amount at the end of the month. But ultimately when it comes to the commission workers, it gets more difficult. So what we do is actually we actually discuss with the HR, with the HR knows best on the situation of the employees. And ultimately HR decides what we give an app to the individual, but HR gets the best.
[4868.32-4897.38]  So they determined the amount and they have the ability to increase, decrease, suspend. So at the end of the day, we're providing the financing and the solution, but it's the in-child who makes documents. That's the first, Gabriel. Second, what we wanted to do is we want people to be able to get through the week. So maybe we'll throw it like four times a month, once a week, four times. But we're noticing people were throwing down more than that.
[4897.38-4926.35]  We said, hey, we're using this money for. And the other thing was to pay for the mobile bills, their utilities, so what we said, oh, let's let them pay in the app for free. So we actually said, we don't have to make every dollar from the employee. So it is actually free service, piece of mind service for the employees. And for the employer, right, I mean, people, they don't get disconnected. They wish to walk. People can transfer their paperwork.
[4926.35-4956.08]  right? So it's good for the employer to smoke. But ultimately, where we make is we make a small commission from the tech coast to utility. So we're trying to make it from the big guys. We're not trying to make every other work. So that's how there's another measure of safeguard. And then we looked at it, okay. And then a lot of them were saying we're buying groceries and we're buying a print petrol into my scooter. And this is what I
[4956.08-4983.50]  five dollar items. Even if we charge a very long fee, so this is still full time. So we introduced like a QR pay. So for small ticket item, don't use EAA. Just pay on site. Then you don't have to go through picking money out of the ATM as well. So we have what we're trying to do is we keep asking. So where you need the money for, what are you saving for?
[4983.50-5012.48]  And we keep coming off the solution. A lot of these solutions actually is the workplace. It's the employer asking us, hey, actually, my people have this problem. Can you get me a solution? A lot of these service came about from the request. So that's why it's the employer having us to provide them to work really closely together to make it better. Sorry to interrupt. That's great. So we're all out.
[5012.48-5041.89]  You provide similar service in Mexico, correct? So if you'd be great to hear from your perspective, how do you make sure that workers are benefiting from this sort of safety? Well, we said that it starts with a work that is a collaboration. Well, it's important to collaborate with the financial institutions, these falling banks, and also to the employers. Because at the end of the day, the few of us are looking forward to helping these guys. So basically what we do is.
[5041.89-5072.38]  three important mindspoints. One of them, as Richard was just commented, is to keep access only to a percentage of what they already actually earn. And the way we check that is, I go again to the collaboration, we should put the bank, we should put the employees, and basically we convert that to the 30, between 20 to 30 percent of what they actually will receive in their bank accounts. They have other deductions in their jobs.
[5072.38-5100.43]  important progress. The other one is that everything that we ask ask for will be deducted completely in the next paywall. Weekly, by weekly, monthly or whatever their paywall is on. We just try to get in the same strategic or the same configuration all the employees have with their employees. So which we're trying to be part of the solution and not be part of a challenge.
[5100.43-5128.34]  The third most important one and that's what is device when you study this conversation is nutrients between a credit or a loan and then earn wages access. That is, there's going to be a surrogacy. Each employee knows what that fee is going to pay before he asks for data. So I think if
[5128.34-5157.26]  Without a product out there being, I have to start with some of us in this business clause of law. If we show those three, it's not alone. It's just giving you access to have information. It's deductible. And it's one of those people you already have. That's our same ones. Thanks for that. Matt, you're doing the same thing here in the US. Sorry. I am. And not a time to add to the one that you have done this that week.
[5157.26-5178.16]  When we started this company in 2019, we're at Court in Birmingham, Austin's over in Atlanta. We support employees in all 50 states throughout the U.S. Our big thing similar to these guys is flexibility and responsibility, right? You want to make sure that somebody still has a paycheck left over next Friday when they get paid. So we put caps and guardrails in place, a number of times they can use it, how much money they can pull out, et cetera.
[5178.16-5208.38]  And the responsibility that really comes down to sitting down with an employer and saying, what do you think is a responsible barber as we should put in place? And so that flexibility and responsibility is really how we've done and leaned into the way we've grown over the past six years and in some way to live with them. And the last panel talked a lot about financial education. Was that not also a part of the process to be able to make sure that people understand what's happening? It sure is. It's for us. It's one of those things where
[5208.38-5237.20]  The example I think a role and I talked about this last week when we were together in Europe, this if you hand a 15 year old the keys to a 911 Porsche, probably not going to go well, right? And so the idea is that when you go in and you start to help people access their pay early, you want to make sure that you're providing with financial education. And so we at immediate have financial education content. We have a financial health coach that they can actually chat back and forth with directly inside the app.
[5237.20-5266.51]  And then we do a monthly financial wellness newsletter where we can make it seamless to serve up some of these financial wellness best practices, suggestions, thoughts, et cetera. And I know that other organizations here that we work with also highly encourage savings and making sure that people are on the right path. And Robert mentioned it in his panel earlier, but you're talking about somebody's lifelong financial wellness journey. And this is just a piece of the puzzle. And so in a lot of cases, what we find is this.
[5266.51-5293.73]  It's people that are early in their career and you're trying to get them started with a really solid foundation. So they all find themselves turning to a predatory title or payday loan, which may create a cycle of death if they can't break. And so we're really giving them a responsible way to access their own pay versus turning to predatory third party lenders. Excellent. I'm staying with you, Matt. And presumably the employers also benefit from this. Is that true? They do. It's.
[5293.73-5316.58]  It was a lot harder to explain that to them early on. You know, you would kind of say, here's all the things that you're going to get out of it as an employer. But after doing this for seven years, we've got plenty of data that supports that. Of course, I guess the question of sleep. I never thought about that. That's great. I need to talk to you more about that. That's fascinating. We saw a huge post COVID specifically.
[5316.58-5345.34]  have a healthcare technology background. And so when we first got started, it's kind of, you know, how to sell the healthcare. And so that's what we went and did. We had a lot of healthcare clinics and they would say, we just need people that are engaged. We've got nurses and clinicians that are burned out. How can we get them more engaged? So that was kind of an intangible piece of the puzzle, right? We didn't have a whole lot. We can show them. What we've seen over time is that when we compare a reduction in turnover of people that are enrolled versus not enrolled,
[5345.34-5373.82]  Turnover start to drop. So there's a great example that I'll get real briefly. We work with an organization that has about 1000 employees, 28 locations. It's a quick service restaurant in the southeast. And our average enrollment is usually the 20 to 25% of an employee census. There are 47%. And when we look at the turnover in that 47% versus the other 53%, quick service restaurant, we'll see triple digit turnover a year over a year ahead.
[5373.82-5400.00]  28% less turnover and the 47% and the 53%. So what that does, obviously, is it creates more continuity. They're going to provide better service to their customers than ultimately the CFO really loved it because it had a tangible impact for their bottom line. We don't charge the employer anything for it yet they got true value out of it. What about you Richard? Very similar to the story.
[5400.00-5429.41]  So we were about to learn to prove it, but we started in the second half of 22. So while we were preparing the app, getting the license of FERF, actually, who employed customer was a walking. And it was the biggest retailer in Malaysia. It was 10,000 employees. Hey, is this all you're charging? And they said any hidden fees, like no, there's no hidden fees. So they said, hey, we're looking for mental health, financial health.
[5429.41-5459.22]  tools to help in all the world coming out of COVID. One, be your first customer. And after a year, they did their own survey on the impact. And this is the retailers, the industry, but the turnover ratio in Asia is about 100%. So basically, every one of your frontline employees is changed in that year. And it dropped down to 60%.
[5459.22-5487.95]  So which means that 40%, 4,000 people they don't have to replace was obviously recruitment costs, training costs, hundreds of thousands of dollars, right? So what they did is, which is more amazing, on the second year when they were renewing, we're just bringing it for the first time, they actually said, hey, we want to pay you some subscription fee. Can you make some changes to your IT solution? And as I said, I was of course happy to do it. So they...
[5487.95-5515.09]  saw the impact and they voluntary the shifting. Okay, so again, we don't have to make it all from the employees. We could employers can also help out and the government can help on another skin. And okay, just to touch up on the ILO, the research. So 41% of 1500 people that survey 41% said.
[5515.09-5542.70]  the relationship with their employer improved. And 46% said when they're looking for a next job, they want an EWA. Having an EWA is important to them. And that came out of the dialogue. Sorry. Excellent. Two bits there. Arrodo, what about your experience with benefiting employers? Well, I think those are part here that they do all the...
[5542.70-5570.46]  these countries who have service providers is happening in the same. So Asia or UK, United States, low in Mexico, we're still in the same. We've been doing this for several over in years since starting was very complicated within work with when we're that is lucky and you have someone on that door, but we're seeing the same change. So after all these years, we have seen that in the percent of the user data.
[5570.46-5599.52]  actually have access to this, we'll use this. We know that three or three persons normally use it because they need to pay something that is essential as a bill or as a medicine. We have this from 24 seven. And also what's very important for the employees is that before these kind of services, Norman and the employer had to resolve their problem for them to be there and help him some way. So it will be.
[5599.52-5628.88]  I've earned for human resources just to administrate that bar that is all to the boobs, but I have to help you because if they don't help in you, he will want to fix that problem. So I'll give you just a little critique that we found, okay, for where this company and they didn't want to give us a copy. So basically said, no, because this is a no. We can't convince them. So when we're going out and they share with the factory, there was a big line outside in this.
[5629.10-5659.57]  All these people were in an ATM. We could see that the one at the front just went back to the line and then the other went back to the line. They wouldn't turn in normal, so it's like what they're doing is. So we went to the desk. So it was a Friday, or five o'clock, basically what they were doing was they were checking their balance. Their day will have to appear. But it's time to check it will be a charge. So they went to the end of the line. Now it's your turn to check it. So your bank account is in everybody's bank account.
[5659.57-5689.12]  So I asked him, why don't you check tomorrow? So the response was interesting. He said, well, I need the money just for my home because I need to place full of table maps. So they gave us a conference. Well, that's the pain that we're going to solve right there. End of service is going to be cheaper than the ATM. And that is a common denominator that we flower or share.
[5689.12-5718.77]  Last week, when you invited us to the need to work on these guidelines, I think the comment in the denominator was this. How can we solve a problem to be a collaboration with these guys who lose the difficult jobs? You have helped the worker, helped the financial industry in having a new form of economy or micro economy for business. Basically, that's what we're understanding and finding. That's great.
[5718.77-5747.39]  And just to elaborate on the point that you're making, these guys are part of a community practice of earned wage access providers, the thiolos facilitating. And one of the things that this community identified that they felt they needed and they wanted was a good practice guide. The idea that making it clear to regulators, but to also to employers and to workers, I assume.
[5747.39-5778.27]  that what should be good practices in providing Ermway Jackson's in order to make sure that they have pulled in the standards that are set to this guide is all voluntary at the moment, but this is something that they're producing and hopefully will influence and make sure that other Ermway Jackson's providers follow similar approaches. Let's say with you, Araldo.
[5778.27-5806.00]  Could you explain a little bit about your business model and how are you able to provide these services sustainably? Yes, well, what we're talking about, I've been doing my homework and talking to different providers that I've found on the web or these kind of businesses in different parts of the world and I see a comment in a minute or everybody's doing a senior. Basically, it's always a fixed fee.
[5806.29-5834.83]  If you charge a quantity of money for this service, it is going to be deducted with the payroll, all this next painting. But also, this survey that I hope you will have access to a lot of information. Now, you can bring others to give service to you, like when you want to pay a bill or when you pay a debt with you, we can pay cell phones, we can pay a debt to bills, but also reconnect it to the funds for retirement in Mexico.
[5834.83-5864.78]  or these other services of the living church and basically those providers will give us a commission who helped them really give access to all of these guys. So at the end of the day everybody wins. Now they can save for the retirement, for them it's free, you can just process that payment or I have also two daughters and I use it to pay their so-folds. So when they call me Zab and I hope it doesn't work, basically what I do I grab my phone and to pay no me just say let's put 10 bucks in there so it won't work.
[5864.88-5894.94]  I'm going to give the porch. They will open. They will gather the cell phone bill. So, basically, our economics go around. We really have been helpful for other guys in a bridge between providers who needs this channel to go directly to employees just to end. We have seen that the people have a lot of use of the wage reconnected.
[5894.94-5924.69]  If you are with the most of the app, we're one of the guys. The first bank experience. It's a simple app, but if you wanted to do the things, it's easy to achieve. For some countries in Mexico, everybody is banked, but now it's aspirational. Because if you have a bank account, and if you have a service provider that's equipped with your bank account, now you can have access to.
[5924.82-5947.42]  I think it's just that full economic schedule. Thanks. Matt, what about you? It's similar to the area. I think it applies on similarities with most hardware access companies. We have not had companies in the U.S. approaches and want to pay us.
[5947.42-5973.17]  And then we send this leak out to our customers. So if you're watching this, you'd like to pay us. We would be happy to say that. We would like to be the first customer. The way we've structured it is it's a nominal transaction fee. We charge a $3.50 flat rate fee. And as we talked earlier, put the caps and guardrails in place. And we also.
[5973.17-6001.79]  Same thing as earlier, we talked about financial wellness and helping them on the lifelong journey as we offer free transactions. So if someone's planning ahead and they make a transaction in the future, they know that there's a bill that's due on Thursday and they go in on Tuesday and schedule that and they want to pay that on time as opposed to getting able to late fee if they wait till payday on Friday. We actually do that for free. So we'll get them free transactions. They plan ahead. We have an immediate debit card where they can move money onto that for free and we want to test interchange on the back end.
[6001.79-6023.55]  And then we also have a gift card marketplace where we have a 3rd party partner that actually offers bonus funds in some cases of 10 to 20%. And we see spikes on the holidays with people going in and making a $200 transaction where they get a 20% bonus and they get $240 on a gift card, but they only had $200 that came out of their paycheck. And so we are.
[6023.55-6051.66]  You know, we don't have any recurring stats fees. We don't charge implementation fees. We make all of our revenue from those transaction fees. But what we found is it becomes very consistent. And we can kind of, because the data we have, we can kind of drill down and see the different types of businesses and what we'll expect with enrollment and frequency of usage and things that that official kind of creates a quasi-recurring revenue stream because we see it pretty consistent.
[6052.11-6080.62]  So based on this discussion in the previous panel, it sounds like this data is really key to the success of this model. Richard, what about you? I mean, when we began, yeah, seven habits, yeah, you'll begin with the end in mind. And then basically, we looked at how much do people 10 or fourth, right? 10, 24 times a month.
[6080.62-6110.22]  But we're working in a different market. We're working in Southeast Asia where the two people capitalized about 5,000 per head for Indonesia, Philippines, and Vietnam. And if you go to like a rural area, the lunch money is about $2, urban area, $3. So I say, how can I make the economics work with just making $2, $3 on a per employee? But that's the study.
[6110.26-6139.63]  Then I said, okay, first of all, we have to get the cost of funds as low as possible. It was very difficult, but I went, it just happens to my two previous jobs that I worked at, Citibank and then HSBC gave us social financing. And HSBC came from the spotlight finance. Actually, Siri gave us money from the global social finance. It's whatever the central bank rate.
[6139.63-6168.86]  plus about 1%. That is as low as it can be. And then we also use the bank room for this person. We didn't use any as we care. A lot of the markets, we actually made it free or near free. So to the right cost, we control the job, right? So as low as possible. And having said that, the banks will convince me because we're only going to work with responsible employers who have a very, you know, credit aid.
[6168.86-6198.74]  their credit is very sound. And obviously, to the state in four years, we've transacted over 300 million US. We have a loss of single time. All our employees paid us back on time. And actually, we have a loss of single customer. So it just keeps them growing. The thing is how we can make this. Okay, what if we have a 1 billion active users? Even if you make $23, there's two three million more than that.
[6198.74-6226.38]  for human 60 people to stay afloat, right? So the death was the beginning. We are already halfway there. But again, the second market we put it together is 600 million people, 300 million economically active, 110 million in large course. Okay? So even if we just win 1%, we can stay afloat. And I said, we'll be there in six months.
[6226.42-6255.74]  So it took us four years and six months to get here. Another thing is we're betting on the scale, but it's the trust you build. And being the first financial person, again, this society is very young. People who are in Vietnam, they're connected, but 70% are under 30. Indonesia, 70% is under 35. So there's financial education, creating a habit.
[6255.74-6285.70]  being responsible. So we do that. And that's why we love this side of the togethers that we come up with those education material together to blast it out and so on. And that's part of it. Because employers are basically doing more communication and there's no paid advertisement, right? So there's no cost for operation.
[6285.70-6316.00]  We have 60 people running seven countries. Thanks to the AI, actually, we don't see any increase in cost even though there's increase in volume through automation. So actually, for the FinTech, the relatively lower cost of operation of FinTech is also kind of making it work, but also getting the employer to help us with the communication is also helping. So economics is welcome. You can get to the scale. Yes.
[6316.00-6345.42]  Excellent. So this is a deep dive into the earthquake access, give you some insights as to how operators think and act and how they benefit workers and how they benefit employers and how they cover their expenses in the process of doing it. So I want to thank all of you for coming to this event and hopefully useful and interesting and got some good takeaways.
[6345.42-6358.10]  and look forward to how this evolves. I'm sure we will continue to discuss financial health and earned weight access as a tool to achieve financial health again in the future. Thanks a lot.
