UNREVIEWED ORGANIZER-PROVIDED AUTOMATIC TRANSCRIPT (WIPO Speech-to-Text).
https://admin.live.ilo.org/sites/default/files/transcripts/b4afb9d1-88e5-4d6c-ba6a-0dd5cdd29acf/1790276184/en.docx

This document contains a machine-generated transcript of the meeting session mentioned in the title.  The speaker names are result of the automatic tagging during the session. These transcripts are generated automatically by WIPO Speech-to-Text from the audiovisual recording. The accuracy of the transcripts cannot therefore be guaranteed. Only the original speech of the audiovisual recording constitutes the official record of the meeting proceedings.




Her Majesty, Queen Martina of the Netherlands, I’m the U.N. Secretary General, Special Advocate on Financial Health. Madam Jacqueline Mugo, the President of the International Organization of Employers. I call her Madam President because we don’t have many. So every opportunity I get, I use it. Ms. Christine Freire, the Executive Director at RISE.
Mr. Michael Wigger, Director of the Inclusive Financial Services Gates Foundation. His Excellency, Mr. Claret Corner, the Minister of Public Health, Social Development and Labor of the Government of Saint Martin. Excellencies, Distinguished Ladies and Gentlemen, friends, colleagues, it is a pleasure to welcome you to this event. For more than a century the ILO has worked to advance social justice and we all know that this is a foundation for universal and lasting peace. As the only tripartite United Nations agency, the ILO brings together governments, employers and workers to develop labor standards and also develop policies and programs that promote decent work for all.
Today’s discussion speaks directly to this vision. As recognized in the Doha Political Declaration of the Second World Summit for Social Development, decent work is a pillar of sustainable development. Decent work is more than employment. It is about ensuring that work provides security, dignity, opportunity and hope for a better future. Yet millions of workers with formal jobs continue to struggle with rising living costs and earnings that are insufficient to meet their needs.
Financial insecurity remains widespread making it difficult for workers to manage the expenses, absorb unexpected shocks, save for the future and achieve long-term financial health. These challenges are particularly severe among workers in low paid, temporary, part-time work and other nonstandard forms of employment. Women, young people, migrants are disproportionately affected. Financial stress affects their wellbeing and it also affects enterprise performance through lower productivity, higher absenteeism and reduced engagement. Excellencies, friends, colleagues, please note the following three points.
First, digitalization of wage payments has driven financial inclusion in many countries and thanks to the efforts of those of us in this room. It has made payroll more efficient, transparent, more secure and accurate while also supporting enterprise modernization, formalization and increased access to finance, particularly for SMEs. For workers, digital wage payments have also created pathways to a wider range of financial services. New technologies have expanded opportunities to deliver products such as savings, wage access, insurance and so many more, especially for workers who traditionally have been underserved by the financial sector. Second, the transition to digital wage payments can be a powerful platform for advancing workers’ financial health, including connecting them to financial services that better meet their needs. Any discussion on the role of workless financial services must be grounded in the recognition that living wages, social protection and respect for workers’ rights remain the primary foundation for workers’ financial security and well-being.
They must complement broader efforts in line with ILO principles and be informed by the needs of workers and their families as well as the economic realities. Third, and as I close, realizing this potential requires a responsible approach. Workplace financial services must comply with national labor, financial and data protection regulations. They must be accompanied by strong safeguards and worker protections and be supported by financial education and meaningful engagement with workers and employers. Success, therefore, requires collaboration among enterprises, workers and employers organizations, financial service providers, regulators, researchers and, of course, development partners.
If we get it right, Distinguished Ladies and Gentlemen, the workplace can become more than a place where wages are paid. It can become a platform for advancing the financial health of millions of workers all over the world while helping business to become more productive. With these words from the ILO, I now invite Mr. Michael Wigan to give his remarks before we go into the fireside chat. Michael, you have the floor. Thank you, Your Excellency’s presence, colleagues and friends.
Thank you very much. Thanks to the ILO for organizing this event and bringing us all together to ask an important question, which is how can the digitization of wages help increase financial inclusion and financial health of millions of workers around the world? We have been a very proud early sponsor of the ILO’s Global Center for Digital Wages for Decent Work. We really value the collaboration and the amazing work that they have done. It is clear that the digitization of wages can increase financial inclusion.
Since 2011, we have more than 2 billion adults in low and middle income countries have come into the formal financial system and 43% of them say that they open the account to receive wages or government payments. We know it drives financial health. Even just the digitization of wages does drive financial health. As an example, an RCT of garment workers in Bangladesh shown that those that receive their wages digitally had twice the level of formal savings as those that get paid in cash. The ability of them to respond immediately with an instant payment back to their families in a remote part of the country to respond to an emergency gives greater control and agency to those women over their money.
So that alone has been a fantastic development. But there is more that we can do. We now have the opportunity to provide a wider range of financial products to employees through the employers. Savings, pensions, credits, insurance. The logic for this is quite clear.
It dramatically lowers the cost of sales and origination, credit losses in the cases of loans, elections or claims payments. The cost of the financial service provider is dramatically lower if they can work through the employer to deliver these products and collect payment directly from the employer. Therefore, those service providers should be able to provide those products at a much lower cost and at a greater scale than they do today, benefiting the workers to have access to these greater products at a lower cost. And there should be a benefit to the employers as well. We already see with digitization of wages, the cost of administering payroll is cut by more than half.
But with these other products and services being offered, it should greatly increase employee retention as well as reducing the amount of absenteeism for workers that have to respond to financial emergencies at home. So we are very excited to promote this work. We are working with RISE and BSR. The theory is great. We really need to test do the financial service providers pass on those savings in the terms of our costs?
Does it, in fact, improve retention and reduce absenteeism so that we can promote it and get widespread adoption? Thank you all for joining us today. Thank you, Your Majesty, for your tremendous leadership on financial health. And we look forward to working together with all of you to continue to drive financial inclusion and financial health for workers around the world. Great.
We are doing very well on time. Excellent. Ladies and gentlemen, friends, it is really an honor to moderate this fireside. And you can ask where is the fire? So imagine with me that you are in this beautiful room with an excellent view.
That doesn’t need imagination. It is a beautiful room. But imagine there is a fire, right? Cozy. And we are having a chat with the Queen.
Are you there? We have the Queen of the Netherlands with us. We have a female president of the international organization. Are you imagining? So we are going to have a fire chat.
You can’t see the fire, but it is there. And it is really to break down, you know, concretely some of the issues that have already been raised and why we are here. As noted during the remarks, financial inclusion has reached historically high level. And thanks to the efforts of many, particularly by Maxima, who has really taken this up. This has not translated into financial health as we require.
So what we are going to do is how do we make this happen? Are you excited? Great! More energy! Let me welcome Her Majesty Queen Maxima of the Netherlands to please take her seat. Your excellency. And then Madam President, please take your seat by the fire side.
We know the challenges. We know the opportunities. But more importantly, we recognize that the workplace is becoming an important entry point. To address this issue. Because employers have a stake.
Workers have a stake. We all have a stake. And so I’m going to go straight on. And you will help me with time management, right? So can we give all our speakers an applause?
Because there will be majesty. I’ll start by addressing the first question to you. Why has the issue of financial health become a pressing global agenda? And how is this affecting different groups? Let me start by saying first of all, thank you for having us here.
I love the two introductions. And it actually sort of identifies the importance of actually people that are, you know, with their labor, they can actually get more back to their money. So I think that we’re here for it. And the issue of financial health, frankly, it actually started a long time ago. The whole reason of financial inclusion came from the fact that if I wanted to give people the possibility to save, I have to start by giving them an account first.
So that was basically in 2007, we actually suggested that. And we said access to financial services. And it ended up being sort of the title that I got in 2009, the Secret General to inclusion, which is basically to give access to financial services to people. Now, it’s been a wonderful success. What we do realize is that, you know, in this access, we have actually really improved the inclusion to people in the economic lives.
And, you know, Michael was actually sort of mentioning how people have actually facilitated sort of actually in the garment industry in Bangladesh, sort of once a month or once every two weeks, you know, rows of people and what actually that entailed and women having, you know, feeling insecure, being stolen and the fact that they can actually send that money frictionless to their families in the rural areas. It’s been amazing. Now, has it really translated into financial health is a question. I’ve seen places where instead of actually getting innovation on savings, which is probably the first reason to actually having this access to financial services, we’ve seen a plethora of consuming digital credit and getting a lot of people over indebted. And less innovation on the savings side, there has been some, but less innovation on the savings side, less innovation on asset creation type of credits, mortgages.
I’ve seen much less innovation on some innovation, but not really that scaled up on the insurance side. So those are the types of things I would like to see. And I think it’s good to pause a little bit and actually define what is financial health. So we all have the same sort of level in the comprehension of what do we really mean. And financial health has four components.
Number one is how is a person able to manage the day-to-day finances and how can we actually help them, give them some kind of budgeting sort of tool. I was speaking to a bank in Mexico, and they actually now every time you get your income, they put it in different pockets and you do just so actually for the electricity, for your rent, because you’ve actually seen it in sort of the historical, you actually have to do. And then what’s always your disposable money that you can actually, so you never get into trouble. And even then, they’re going to say, well, you’re spending too much money on your phone. You can actually save on that.
These are the things we’re actually talking about. We’re talking about sort of, for example, the small dollar loan in the United States to actually replace the overdraft in order to get the liquidity. Sometimes you just do not make it. So that’s also very important. And in general, liquidity.
So that’s number one. Number two, resilience. How are you capable in front of any shocks, health shocks, income shocks, climate change shocks, health shocks? And then, of course, is the case of all types of insurance, crop insurance to health insurance, life insurance, et cetera. But a very important component of that is actually emergency savings.
But it’s a buffer, that first one to three months of income buffer that I have in case of anything. You know how there’s more than 40% of Americans that do not have $400 in case of an emergency. And that means that if your car breaks down, you cannot fix it and you cannot go to your job and, therefore, you might actually lose your job. So these are very, very important issues. One-tenth of people in the UK, no savings at all, even 300 pounds.
And, of course, this is very much the case in all the world. So just with that, I want to say how universal this is. Emergency savings is a first step to the next thing, which is your long-term dreams. Do you want to build a house? Do you want to invest in something that’s going to generate more income?
The education of your children, even the next school fees in the next August or September, even for a lot of people that is long-term to start with. So I was yesterday speaking to the CEO of a Kenyan bank and I know that school fees are one of the biggest issues for families and households in Kenya. And it’s like it surprises them every August. And I said, you know, why are you not designing every month or every week? You put a little piece and by the time it gets to August, that money is there and the heading is great.
So this long-term thing is very important because one of the very big issues is retirement and pensions. And that is a big, big issue. Now, the fourth issue is a very subjective one and is, you know, what is your confidence and why is this important? Because if you have financial stress, that has an effect on multiple levels of your life. And to start with, other workforces.
We know that here in the U.S., people who have financial stress lose seven hours in a 40-week workweek. And it costs employers $184 billion. Accidents. We know we have research that says that, you know, the truck drivers when they have financial stress, they end up having sort of very preventable accidents. And then also for the employee themselves.
So this is a very important issue for both, you know, employers in terms of productivity, in terms of mental health, in terms of family relations. I do not need to tell you the relation between financial stress and, you know, family stress. So and be able to think long-term on the wellbeing of your whole family. So I think this is a very important issue. And why the workforce is important?
Because people spend a lot of time, there is a place where they get their income. And we have a lot of research saying, you know, even here in the States, 76, I mean, basically from all the workforce, they find that their employer have much more trust than any other organization around them. So this daily connection with your employer and they give you salary, it is a fantastic place to start discussing these things. So, for example, in the Netherlands, we have a foundation or coalition of private sector and employers and actually they share best practice that sort of, you know, do we have a social fund in case of emergency? Do we help them, you know, do some savings?
How do we help them when they get into sort of trouble? What are early detection and early warning signs? So this is something that is the reason why being here at the ILO is very important. Thank you so very much for setting concretely the urgency of the agenda and what the implications are. A lot of figures, I’m sure you heard a lot of those figures across the board as to the implications of financial health laws.
I will now quickly go to you, Madam President, what does this look like? How does this affect employers? Thank you, my sister, for that important question. It is a pleasure to be here this morning and to have this very important conversation from an employer’s perspective. And as I was listening to Her Majesty giving her very useful inputs, I can’t help but think within the context of Kenya which is a developing country and see myself, so why do people really work?
And the dream is to make money, change the life of people to be able to save. It is difficult to talk about the financial health of the individual employee without looking at the financial health of the enterprise. And that perhaps is the dimension I would like to as a complementary aspect of the very extremely important aspects that Her Majesty described. Because financially healthy enterprises are better able to sustain people in jobs, to pay better wages and also to help improve livelihoods. It is particularly important when we consider the MSMEs and in a country such as Kenya which was mentioned, which is a reflection of most of the developing world, that 90% of enterprises globally and around 70% of employment is actually in the informal sector.
And this is a very, very stressed segment of the working population with very limited financial offers. And we see this very, very clearly as people really just put bread on the table. So issue of savings does not meet my values because we don’t even have enough to make ends meet. And according to World Bank statistics about 46% of Kenya MSMEs do not actually survive the first year and about 80% of them collapse within five years. So when we talk about financial health, it is really very difficult to look at it without looking at the financial health also of the enterprises.
The two are closely connected. They are interlinked. They are mutually reinforcing. So if you strengthen the financial health of the person, you also need to look at the financial health of the enterprises. And we need here to build a retinue of knowledge, the tools and capacity to anticipate the current pressures which were described very well and also the unexpected shocks.
We are going through some of them. Right now in Kenya, we are talking about Armenia and many parts of the world and the shocks that is going to bring to families that are struggling. So how do we ensure the financial health of this scenario? For an employer, the financial health of an employee, it makes a lot of sense because as Her Majesty rightly pointed out, if someone is financially stressed, they are not able to apply themselves on the job. They may not even present themselves on the job.
They cannot come. But if they come, are they really present? Are they productive? What are they going through? So it makes a lot of sense for the employer to be able to contribute to this.
There are lots of initiatives that are happening that are helping people manage their money better. But in reality, because of all the taxes that governments are imposing, employers are ironically struggling to be compliant because according to Kenyan law, for instance, an employee should take home at least one-third of their earnings. Of course, people have loans, they have fees, they are looking after their families. All the money is deducted. And so employers are finding themselves not being compliant with the law and you tell the government, we cannot because the employees are stressed.
So it makes a lot of sense for employers to help the employees manage their money. But it means initially that you pay a decent wage that allows the employee to meet those obligations and then also to save and meet these other requirements. So in Kenya, we see very clearly that financial access is not the same as financial health and I think this has been emphasized. This is true. Around 85% of adults have access to formal financial services.
Yet only around 18% are considered financially healthy in my country, Kenya. That’s really ironic. 18% is a very small segment. So this tells us something very important, that access to financial product is not enough. People also need the knowledge and capacity to plan, to manage day-to-day expenses and to prepare for shocks and understand the options that are available to them.
But we must also recall something that is very important. The fact that workers’ financial success affects employers does not mean that responsibility, financial health is transferred. But it is not the employer’s responsibility alone. Financial health, I think, depends on a broader ecosystem. Governments have a primary role in ensuring effective and sustainable social protection systems.
During COVID, the developing world, it became very clear that they have a role in supporting formalization and strengthening access to education and financial capability and increasingly health is also being added there, access to basic health services, which is where people’s money goes. It goes to food, it goes to transport, it goes to education, it goes to housing, it goes to life. But you’re finding that people pay taxes and yet in many parts of the developing world, they still have to spend money on their own to meet these requirements. So it’s really very difficult. So these are very essential foundations for people to build financial security over the course of their lives.
Employers can also contribute, of course, where appropriate and where they have the capacity through information, through financial education and access to responsible solutions. But we also need to recognize the reality of the business landscape. Most enterprises are enemies and enemies. Many simply do not have the same financial or institutional capacity as larger, more financially stable enterprises. So this is where the stakes are high.
I think workers, employers and governments, all benefit from financially healthy people, resilient enterprises and stronger economies. But these responsibilities are different for employers. This is not about taking responsibility for an individual’s financial decisions nor about substituting for the role of government. It is really about recognizing that worker financial health matters for the workplace while ensuring that each actor in the ecosystem plays the role for which it is best placed to play and for which it is responsible. Thank you so very much, Madam President, for just building on what Her Majesty said and also reiterating the importance for wages, the wage mechanism and social protection.
I have been very generous with both of you on time. Your generosity ends now. Your Majesty, you have two minutes left. Why is the workplace well positioned to help advance financial health? I think I just said it.
I think that’s, you know, the touch points and, you know, the trust that employers actually have in their employees and employers is actually very important. But I think, you know, Madam President actually sort of touched upon a couple of points. When I talk about financial health and also talk about financial health, also the enterprise. And I do not see one actually goes together with the other. Certainly, I mean, that’s something that has to be when I go to countries.
I mean, I was just in Indonesia and you are also, Madam President, on the same type of position. They are working very closely with the government to actually assure exactly that sort of, you know, and financial health of the employees and financial health of the employers. But it has to be in all of government and all of private sector. So this issue of actually having a broader ecosystem and, you know, what role does taxes play in this whole thing and how much there is incentives for more savings or less savings, I think that’s a very, very crucial aspect. I think it’s also a question of design of financial products and also the responsibilities of, you know, what is, you know, a plethora of consumer credit that are digital and actually put a lot of people into a lot of trouble.
And looking into issues that are more like health insurance, how do we actually come up with a health insurance that is actually accessible for everybody and that is really responding to the necessities of the people. Because, I mean, an employer will not be able to solve all of the health issues of their employees. That’s pretty clear. So all of government and with the private sector sort of I think it’s the only way to solve this issue. I’d like to say something very small about knowledge and just as access to financial services is not a predictor of financial health, knowledge isn’t either.
As long as somebody has knowledge but gets offered very bad products, the outcome is still good and bad. Also, we think that, you know, we are all rational people but the fact that, I mean, the reality is we are social animals and we tend to do what other people do. If other people are doing the wrong thing, you know, so we have to think about defaults and actually the right thing to do. And that’s a lot of behavioral sciences that we need to do in the type of, you know, equal digitized wages. Now, one of the things we have actually been doing in the U.K. and also in the U.S., the thing we are doing here in the Netherlands is, okay, we set aside part of that wage into savings immediately.
And we are trying to look in the Netherlands, okay, we are going to put 40 years on the side and I’m as an employer going to give you 10 years more until you have that emergency savings. So getting that sort of defaults in the U.K. has been amazing. We have actually done these pilots and it’s not an opt-in because otherwise nobody wants to fill in the form. So you have to fill in the form you want to sort of, you know, not use this tool. But it’s been people have never saved before.
All of a sudden we are saving and then when they get to save, the motivation starts getting in. And they say, you know, what if I could save this? I could save maybe even more. And this creates a virtuous circle that is actually very, very important. So and it is about sort of, you know, looking into we were just talking about sort of the garment industry.
We have seen employers in Indonesia that decided to do something with the financial health of their employees because they were actually having moneylenders coming over outside of the gates for their factories. And, you know, nobody wanted to leave the place. So at one point it became sort of a necessity for employees. So I think this issue has to have more importance. And it’s not absolutely the responsibility, but it’s something that is actually very effective if employers actually take on and it’s sort of a shared responsibility for sure.
So I would say in a nutshell, sorry, I was too long already. Thank you so very much. I was trying to use different antics to get them. She got the message. No, thank you so very much.
There’s so many interesting things. I mean, really we needed more time to be able to fully benefit from the expertise, the experiences that Her Majesty would have presented and has already presented. But we’ll need to match on with time. But I’d like to agree with what you just said and what you said earlier about the need for more innovation in terms of the products, whether it’s in terms of asset building, in terms of insurance, in terms of different products. And I’ll try to prevent myself from making comments so as to save on time.
Madame Mugo, you have two minutes. Considering the capacities of enterprises in different locations, what’s the role of employers? You already alluded to some of them. So if you could just hit the nail quick point, what is their role? Employers’ role can be seen in many different ways.
I think the reality is that the workplace is the place where financial stress is often felt. Employers have a relationship with their workers. People spend eight hours or more at the workplace. But the workplace also varies because when we talk about workplace, yes, there’s those large enterprises that have payroll systems, they have HR departments, but the bulk of them are small ones that don’t have anybody responsible for HR or responsible for payroll. So you have to look at this broad spectrum of variety of workplaces to be able to come up with solutions.
But the employer can do a lot in terms of education, helping employees be aware of how to manage their money, helping them deal with the psychosocial issues and the challenges that they face. And a lot is being done by employers in this way on financial education. So a large enterprise, of course, will have greater capacity than a smaller one. So the employer’s contribution, I think, has to be practical. It has to be proportionate to their responsibilities and also adapt the capacity of the particular enterprise.
That is why my view supporting the enterprises is as much a part of the solution as supporting the employee as well. So employers play an effective role, but they need a strong business environment around them. Governments have a fundamental responsibility here. It is one of the key roles that employers play to engage Governments, to impress upon them some of the impact of the taxes for employees, which are good, but if employees are paying to housing, they are paying to health, they are paying to all of this as I said earlier, but not actually accessing those services, then that’s a difficult position to be in and it is a conversation that employers are the ones best placed behind the Governments. So partnerships are important in this particular area.
The workplace to specifically answer you currently a powerful bridge, but that bridge will look different across countries and across enterprises. Thank you so very much. Now it is rapid fire. There will be two questions, each of you, and we have to wrap up in five minutes. I will start with you, Your Majesty.
We recognize that emerging workplace financial services provide opportunities. The rapid fire question, one minute, what conditions and safeguards need to be put in place? Well, I think one of the conditions is that the enterprise in itself has its capacity to be able to do so. I mean, it is very clear. We also have in small and medium enterprises in the Netherlands.
How do I start that? I have two or three employees. I have to juggle the finances, the HR. So I think that one of the issues that we need to do is on a national level create tools for these micro and small enterprises to do this sort of, you know, in a very quick way and easy way and actually having partnerships with financial institutions and actually offer those programs in the right way. We will not be able to have large schemes for the employees.
That’s very understandable. But also, you know, the having measurement, I think that’s a very big issue. We need to start measuring financial health and the population from a survey perspective so at the government level. Then we need to have sort of, you know, the measurement. We have actually done a lot of measurement from an employee’s perspective with surveys and that has brought a lot of insight what is actually worrying them.
So the employees can actually pay them at the right time sometimes and then changing the payment style, et cetera, or helping them to have sort of, you know, groups. So I think measurement actually gives you knowledge. And the same thing goes for national service providers which is probably not a conversation we are having in this forum. But they need to know, for example, I mean, one of the biggest countries in the Netherlands, they said to me, well, you know, we are national champions of saving on an average but they started looking into it and one-fifth didn’t save. And then they realized, okay, what were the caveats and they started designing a new person.
Now little by little these people are starting to save. So I think measurement and, again, sort of measurement tools and tools for the small and micro enterprises will be very important and the partnership with financial service providers will be extreme. But creating coalitions on a national level will be very important and creating know-how measurement tools and also best practice on a global level. So Madam President, there is a lot to say. I will try and be precise.
First, I think we need the infrastructure, the tools as has been said. These solutions need to be user centered and grounded in the realities of those expecting to use them. We should also remember that many of these solutions are actually developed by businesses and delivered by businesses. So they are responding to a need but they also need visible business models. So you need models that work.
You need people to trust them. The challenge, therefore, is how to have solutions which are designed around the needs of users within clear and responsible regulatory frameworks while preserving the conditions for businesses to innovate, invest and grow. For instance, in Kenya now you can get all sorts of loans very easy and then people are over borrowed. They have so much money which they just take it but they have no capacity to pay it back. So we need to educate them and help them and these technological solutions also need to go in education and help people read into money.
So it is a two-pronged approach. In one word, partnership. What should the partnership to make this happen be? One word. Your Majesty.
Ambition. Ambition. Ambition. And I’m president. Workable.
Pragmatic ambition. We just gave a round of and I must say that I found it difficult to stop because so many excited were being put on the table. Thank you so very much for the great work done, for sharing your expertise, experience and also providing us with very concrete ways to scale up and enhance the impact. So with this, once again, thank you very much, Your Majesty. Great to lead us in the other part of the program.
Thank you. Excellent. All right. That’s a tough act to follow. But we’ll have to move on and see how we advance this agenda.
My name is Craig Churchill. I work for the International Labor Organization in Geneva where I lead our work on social finance or responsible finance for decent work. So this is how we look at how the financial sector can advance their agenda. How can banks, insurers, investors focus and contribute to creating jobs and improving working conditions. And in that context, we have been working with the Gates Foundation on this initiative about digital wage payments and trying to find ways in which we can get employers to pay their workers into their bank accounts or into prepaid cards and then realizing that that’s not enough.
They need to not just have access into their bank accounts, but they need to use it. They need to not just take all their money out at payday, for example, and then use cash. And so this has been a really interesting sort of journey that we have been on over the past five, six years trying to advance this digital wage agenda and it has really led into this whole financial health conversation which you have heard a great overview of from the fireside chat. What we are going to do now is we have got two panels. We are going to start first with the panel that is going to delve into this idea of financial health in more detail, really trying to flesh out what it means in practice and what are the tools and products and services that are on offer in order to advance the financial health and how it can benefit both workers and employers.
And then after that panel we are going to have another panel that is going to look into one particular product in specific detail, this earned wage access, the idea of being able to access money that you have already earned before payday. And it is not a loan. It is accessing your own money that you have already earned but before payday. So these are the two panels that we have upcoming. And to start, I would like to invite Christine Schauer from RISE to lead her panel.
Thank you, Christine. There is no panels to come up. You can decide which organisation you fancy. Okay. So it is no longer a fireside chat.
We are getting down into kind of real practical pieces now and I have got a great panel with me. So I am Christine Schauer. I am the Executive Director of RISE. You have already had a couple of people talk about the work that you have been doing in the government sector but we are a collaborative platform working with, thank you, with global brands and suppliers across the government and footwear sector. We also work and it is so great to be here at ILO with workers representative groups and local partners.
And we really focus on what was discussed at the last panel, what happens to low income men and women in the apparel sector. And we are huge fans of the workplace as a space for change. Everything we do centres around the change we can create at the workplace level. We look at a number of issues that affect workers, anything from harassment and violence to women’s leadership to health and financial health is right at the centre of everything that we do. And it is so because it comes back to it was slightly touched on in the previous panel to that really essential contract that you have between an employee and an employer, that exchanges of time for wages and so making sure that that is maximized.
That’s why it is so central to what we do. Ten years ago we started looking at digital wages and how we might be able to expand that. And previous panels have talked about the way that digital wages and the apparel industry that we have been working with has been one of the first ones to really pick it up and scale it across everywhere where they are going. Just to give you an example, when we started in 2019, and I was sharing with you earlier, we spent about three years knocking on doors in Cambodia, trying to get employers to switch wages from cash to digital. I think that we are around, when we started, 22% of all export-based factories in Cambodia had their wages digitized.
That meant that 78% hadn’t. That number has completely flipped. There has been a concerted effort from industry, from supplier groups, from global brands, but also from government, from others in the space to really drive a huge change. The number now is 75%. That is only rising.
The government is aiming for 100% of factories to be digitized. We know that when you bring industries together, we certainly saw that for us, when we bring fashion and finance together, we can create scale and change. That’s unprecedented. What have we learned? I’m going to highlight, you have heard everyone go through before the different, the four different ingredients that makes for financial health, but the kind of three things that we have learned in that process is, one, you need market-led solutions, but market-led solutions that are centered around the needs and priorities and financial behaviors of workers.
The products need to be tailored and adapted to, you know, your new market. Second, when you combine the access to financial services with the financial education, that builds confidence and knowledge and trust. I’m hoping we are going to come back to trust a little bit. It was touched on before, but when we started the work, yes, it was trust in the employer and not one single garment worker that we engaged with trusted a bank. They did not want their money.
They wanted their money in their hand. They didn’t want it to be put somewhere else, which is why the first thing that happened was everyone walked to the ATM and took out all of their money. The third lesson that we have learned is that you need a clear business case at all levels. You need a clear business case for the individual in our case, garment workers and their families. You need a clear business case for industry at supplier level and all the way through the chain, and you need a clear business case for financial service providers.
In this case, we are gaining a whole new market. We have good foundations to be building on. I have a panel with me of pioneers that are looking to go even further than that. The opportunity ahead of us now is that fourth element of financial health that previous panels touched upon. How do you get the confidence and the kind of time horizon to be able to pursue your long-term financial aspirations?
That’s some of the stuff that we are going to dig into. I am joined today by Robert Salaga, who is Vice President Strategic Account Executive at Strata Global. I have got Luz Gomez, who is also Vice President of Research and Insight at the Master Cut Center for Inclusive Growth. I have got Emily Chung, who is the only one who is not Vice President on this panel, Chief Impact Officer at STREAM, and Jenny Kim, who is Vice President at Shinwon. So, welcome, everyone.
I am not a Vice President, so I am feeling quite left out here. Luz, I am going to start with you. Master Cut, the Center for Inclusive Growth at Master Cut has long been a prominent champion for financial health. I remember you guys were saying, no, it is not about inclusion. It is about the long-term financial health, but years before, there was kind of cotton on to that.
You have been doing that by bringing together the ecosystem that the last panel actually just left us, bringing together the private sector, governments, nonprofits and researchers to really accelerate inclusive growth. So, if we continue to think about that ecosystem, what is it in your experience, Luz, that becomes possible when you combine these stakeholders in lifting the aspiration of financial health? Thank you so much for having us. I think, first of all, we have been on this journey with you as we rise on wage digitalization. You talked about knocking on those doors.
Now it seems as if the people are bought in and the data is really playing it out. Just to maybe hone in on that example a little bit, we have been working together with rise on wage digitalization across a few markets more recently, Cambodia, Indonesia and Guatemala. Just to give you a sense of the scale, in a place like Cambodia, the garment industry represents over 80% of formal employment. So, the scale is there. And even in the program that we have been running together, we have reached 46,000 workers in terms of digitizing their wages.
But that’s not enough, right? It is just the beginning. So, to your question in terms of what’s the ecosystem you need to build to enable more of a journey towards financial health. It has been really rich over the years in terms of trying to understand what that ecosystem really needs to look like to foment financial resilience and financial health. Employers, they are oftentimes the trusted relationships for workers.
We have financial service providers, which you are going to hear about from today, that are building that kind of digital infrastructure and the products. We have community organizations. Christine, you talked so much about what’s the worker lens in terms of building products that are tailored and not just cookie cutter. Really respond to the needs. Researchers, right?
There is a role in terms of trying to understand and really disaggregate what works and where are you falling short. That’s an important piece in terms of really understanding the impact and, of course, philanthropy where I sit with the MasterCard Center also plays a role in terms of being that risk capital when you are knocking on those doors to have a proof point to be able to expand the work. I think those are the kinds of stakeholders that really come together to build that. You alluded to it, too, Christine, where is the win/win/win in terms of the win for workers in terms of having tools to build resilience, the win for financial service providers that are reaching new customers responsibly and the win for the employers in terms of having a real stable workforce and all of the benefits that comes from that. Simply providing that technology isn’t enough.
It is necessary and insufficient as we like to say. We always talk about the trifecta of tech and touch and we add probably trust in that mix and how do you build that? I think that ecosystem that you start building, the tech provides the access, the touch is the how do you build capabilities, get people using financial services so they are not just cashing out, getting them building confidence in their journey. Again, the trust. If financial service providers are working together with employers, working together with NGOs and community groups that try to understand the worker, that’s kind of the foundation I think that needs to be built to make these models work.
Touch, trust, those are three good words to remember as we think about the next frontier. Robert, I’m going to come to you. At Strata Global and you work in slightly different markets than Lewis was describing here but you are people payroll and technology solutions provider. One of those pioneers from our side we are hoping to bring in to the garment factories. If we think about it from an employer’s perspective, how can payroll services benefit both their company and their workforce within it?
If I was an employer and you were going to give me advice on what are the top things I have to consider when I embark on this journey, what would that be? First of all, I’m humbled. I’m a bald girl dad. To have her excellence as a director, Madam President and the Queen shows alongside of all women up on this panel that girls matter. I’m humbled to be a part of such brilliant women in this and I look forward to talking to my girls tonight at dinner about the power of being a girl as a bald girl dad.
I think you bring a really interesting point because there is gains on all sides of this. If we think about the employee benefits to having a professional payroll provider at any scale, it provides consistency in pay with accuracy and timeliness which creates stability when we talk about these financial moments. It also provides tools because as we talked about, that employer, 70% of people believe them to be a trusted financial partner in their lives. But they have access to those tools, tools like financial guidance. They also are able to then gain in things like digital payments and digital payroll payments, financial education, creating savings vehicles.
The opportunity to actually have someone to trust to teach us because we don’t learn along the way what does compounded interest mean or why do I pay $20 a month to a credit card and only 18 of it went to interest and two of it went to the principal. I don’t understand those. That’s where you learn those lessons because, again, life is about a lifelong learning and you learn that alongside of that trusted partner. There are also dozens of tools. We are going to talk about earn reaches access in a little bit.
That’s a really powerful tool that is only accessible when you have a professional partner along that way because it truly is that partner. And as I think specifically around digital payments, businesses are paid digitally or we strive to pay them digitally. It is hard to do that. And thus, why are we treating our employees differently than the way we are paid? If a business wants to be paid digitally, the employee deserves to be paid that same way.
That also creates digital payroll with quicker wages, more accurate wages. All of that yields greater financial wellness. If I think about it from a business benefit standpoint, allowing your you to do what you do well, whether that’s in the garment district, whether that’s in financial services, whether that’s a bakery somewhere, do what you do well and hire us like players like Strata or other professional payroll partners to do what we do well. It is the idea of you strive to do what you do well. It increases productivity and increases efficiency.
And again, to slow the moment down on some of the data we heard a little bit earlier, two-thirds of employees bring financial stress to work every day. So I’m going to ask everyone to do a favor. Take the opportunity to look left, take the opportunity to look right and look down at yourself. Who of you are bringing financial stress to this moment right now? It could be you and it might be your neighbor or it could be both your neighbors and not you.
That’s a phenomenally polarizing statistic. And to reiterate what the Queen had shared, you know, 18% loss in productivity when you bring that financial stress to work. So that means if you’re employing an employee today at five days, they’re only working 24 because they’re spending 20% of their week stressing about finance. When I think about what is a business gain from this and what should it consider in that payroll partnership, it really to me relies and sort of sits on really six big objectives, but really simple ones. It must be transformative.
Is it transforming the way you’re doing business today? Is it helping you transform out of potentially cash payments? But let’s take it another way. Is it taking you out of check payments? Because, again, check is almost almost feels like cash these days.
Some of us don’t even know how to cash checks anymore. Some of us don’t even have a physical bank to cash it out, let’s also be honest. So it’s got to be transformative. It also must reduce those costs and errors. And those errors are felt on the employee side by missed wages, but it’s also very much felt on the compliance and regulatory side of those businesses.
There’s tremendous pressure on achieving that and reducing those errors. It’s got to be scalable and global in a moment. Because whether you’re that bakery today that’s only employing three people or a garment district in Bangladesh or Cambodia, it only takes one next big win as a business to open up a bakery across town or to open up another facility across the globe. So it’s got to be scalable. You’ve got to have a partner that can help you grow in that moment.
You’ve got to drive better data quality and data protection. We trust our employers with our data. All of us do, from financial to health and to personal information, that additional data protection, that data quality matters. You want to eliminate manual risk, paying someone in cash, paying someone as a check. Having people who don’t do this for a living creates a lot of manual risk.
Remove that manual risk. That’s exceptionally important. You want to drive accuracy and timeliness because we talked about that. And then so those are the six points, but all of that drives stability to the employee, financial well-being, financial health, and prototyping of the business. But I think most of all, the business must help meet its employees at those life stages.
And I think that’s where a professional partner helps. You’ve got 14-year-olds in the workforce today who are helping to contribute to the financial well-being of their household. You have 24-year-olds who are buying a house for the first time. You have 34-year-olds who are buying cars for the first time. You have 44-year-olds who are having children for the first time.
And you’re having 54-year-olds that realize they’re about 10 years away, hopefully, from retiring and starting to save for that first time. So if you can create any opportunity to remove that distraction of financial stress and allow employers to be able to step in by providing professional partners that help do what they do well, they feel better supported, employees feel more strongly engaged, more productive, it leads to better retention, better loyalty, and honestly, at the end of the day, it creates a financial well-being structure that we all rely on. Thank you. Six points. Jenny, I’m coming to you.
As an employer, our people in the garment manufacturing space across many different markets, actually many of the markets that Lewis was talking about before, Guatemala, Indonesia, for example, about one year ago, I sat with you guys in a room somewhere like this in New York with Her Majesty talking about the types of products and services and we were mainly learning about what’s happening in the U.S. But you, Chinwon, you’re headquartered in Korea but operate everywhere else in the world, took that back and said what can we do? So over the past year, you piloted and tested your own payroll savings programme for your employees for Stitch. Tell us a bit about what prompted you to develop that and how it works and I think most importantly, why does it make sense for you as an employer of thousands and thousands of people to invest in that financial house? So glad to introduce our journey.
The Stitch was starting with very simple questions. Beyond earning an income, how can we make it easier for our workers to build the financial security over time? Financial well-being is not only about the income as far as we know. It’s also about managing money, building the savings and preparing for the future. So rather than giving them one-time benefit, we really try to create a practical way for our workers to build a consistent saving habits even if they start with zero.
In this Berlin Julian Center, workers choose how much they want to save each month and the bank pays an interest. But if they continue their savings for a full year, they should run as an additional 2% of their savings. We have launched this program in November last year and today almost 300 workers are participating. And as we continue to introduce speech through the rights training and ongoing communication, we saw that participation in graduating includes reinforcing the importance of continuous financial education and worker engagement. We are also beginning to see some meaningful changes in banking behaviors.
One of our workers told us that before speech, she would save whatever was read after spending. But now savings is the first thing she does when she receives her salary. We have also heard from our workers who used to rely on borrowing or like larger expenses such as housing or tuitions, but through regular saving, now they feel like better prepared when those expenses come up. So from here, we see that that’s what like financial resilience looks like in practice, moving from reacting to financial needs to work through planning or like planning and preparing for that in advance. And from the business perspective, we also see the value of this value in this.
Apparel manufacturing is a very people-intensive business, and our skills and experienced workers are our competitive edge. So when workers are better prepared financially, we believe that can also support a more stable workforce over time. So that’s why we see speech as a long-term investment in our kick-through and our business. And we are approaching an important milestone. Our first participants will soon complete their first year of saving.
The value of speech goes beyond how much workers save, but what really matters is the experience of setting their own saving goals and achieving it. So we would like to use those first-year experiences together with ongoing education to encourage our more workers to really think about their own saving goals and take the next step, I mean, take the first step. And our goal is not just to increase participants. It’s like to help our workers think first and plan ahead and be more in control of their future finances. Thank you.
Hearing an employer say that their workforce is their core competitive edge and that you have to look after them is important. So thank you for that. Emily, at stream, I’m going to come to you with a double-sided question, I think. You have integrated a range of payroll technologies across different settings. I’m interested in from your experience, one, what kind of products and approaches work best?
What have you seen work really well? And then I want to bring it back to how do we change people’s lives? What are the changes and shifts that we see? So what changes have you seen for the workers that are using your products and services? Christine, you know that’s my favorite topic.
Mine as well. Let me do the first half of your question first. I want to start with the approaches and then get into the products. It will be a little bit technical, so bear with me. But I’ll try to make that part very fast.
When we’re talking about workplace finance, what we’re actually talking about is working with data and building financial services on top of that. And payroll technology is actually three separate pieces of tech that can sit underneath that, teaching you what you already know, Robert. But we’re looking at three systems. So there’s HR information systems, which tell you who an employee is, what their job is, what their rate of pay is amongst other information. And you’ve got time and attendance, which tells you the hours and days that they’re working.
And then you’ve got payroll systems, which amongst many other complex things tell you when they’re getting paid. When you combine those things together, what we can do in the workplace finance app is we can show you, hey, you worked today. That labour was worth $150.28. In this pay period, you earned $800 and paydays on Tuesday. So that’s kind of like, that’s the ecosystem, the infrastructure.
And then that level of data, you can layer products on the bottom. I’m going to talk about payings, because it seems to be a favourite topic of conversation today. And so when you think about building savings on top of that data infrastructure, the first thing we think about is, well, most people say they want to save. Most people intend to save, but they find it very hard. So we built a default on proposition.
And I was incredibly proud to hear Her Majesty, Queen Maxima, talk about payroll savings in the UK. That’s our work, amongst others as well. But we work really hard to make savings the default. So it’s easier to save than not to save. There’s less friction on the happy path.
If you don’t want to save, there’s more steps you have to take. And then we lean into that data that we’re processing. So if you’re an hourly worker and you earned $150.28, you say to you, why don’t you round down the 28 cents into savings? Every shift you work, put the spare pennies, put the change into savings. It makes it really accessible and easy to start.
And if we detect you’ve worked a bit more this week, you’ve earned more than usual, why don’t you pre-commit, put an extra 20 into savings? We’re leaning into that volatility, that workplace data to help you do the thing you want to do. And then we connect it to the broader ecosystem. If you’re already using cashback or a discount through the app, the cashback is not a savings. But let’s imagine you have a loan.
You need a loan for whatever circumstances that you’re trying to achieve or trying to resolve. We encourage you to save as you borrow. So why don’t you put a little bit of savings every repayment. And then when your loan finishes, we’ll convert your loan repayment into a savings contribution. If you were paying back $50 every pay period, now you’re saving 50.
You can rapidly build resilience. That’s kind of the what, the kind of technology and nuance that makes that possible. And it’s incredibly powerful. And we’ve heard a lot of worries about business impact, so I’m not going to get too much into that. I like to measure amongst many things feelings, right?
I like to know how people feel at night. Do you feel less stressed? Do you feel more in control? Do you feel hopeful? How are your relationships?
But my favorite thing to measure is sleep. Okay? Are you sleeping better? And I looked at across a dataset of over 94,000 survey responses for 2025, so a pretty significant sample, 22% of people sleep better, right? More than one in five sleep better when they have a workplace finance ecosystem supporting them.
That’s huge. And what’s really cool about that data is that we have a longitudinal set. We ask people that three months, nine months, 15 months, two years, three years, four years, five years, and that strengthens over time. So here in America, when you hit the two-year point, you’re at nearly 4 in 10, 39% are sleeping better. I don’t need to tell you that that translates into a 35% increase in productivity at work or a boost in retention.
You can hear just the fact that I’m sleeping better, that more than a fifth of your workforce are sleeping better. They are turning up. They’re turning up more present. They’re happier. They’re sticking around for longer.
So that’s the art of the possible. Sleep. Who wants to sleep? Better sleep, at least. I think that’s a good one for you, Jenny, to take back.
But it does come back to, and we have seen it time and time again, it changes in terms of absenteeism. It changes in terms of how long you stay somewhere. It changes what you were saying as your original desire, someone wants to be an employee of choice. Maybe now you need to ask them how they’re feeling in terms of their sleep in your workplaces, which would be an interesting thing to do. I’m going to wrap up this panel by asking each of you, and you’re going to outperform the previous panel in terms of being brief because I have absolute confidence in you, thinking about the two words that the previous panelists gave us, ambition and workability, in one sentence, and not one of those sentences with lots of semicolons in it, but in one sentence, what excites you most about where the momentum on workplace, financial health could take us over the next couple of years.
Jenny, I’m going to start with you, in one sentence. Part of how our industry, like many high paying workers feel more confident and making like more confidence on their financial health. Financial health is part of the business proposition for the garment industry. I like that. Emily.
I think there is genuine potential to make financial services work better for the working majority. When you connect employment and income data to financial service technology, imagine what’s possible. Thank you. Luz. I think evidence and if we can get the model right, the possibilities are endless.
I think there is a real strong pathway using evidence. Great. We have a combination of things here. What do you want to finish on, Mr. Chair? I think all of you heard my word that I was thinking as we lost the last one.
To me, it is possibility. We are at a moment where we can transform hey into possibility. Workplace financial health is finally moving to not a nice to have. It is the core of how we better serve our employees, create financial wellbeing, create healthy wellbeing and ultimately a better business strategy. Thank you for that.
For me, it is always that opportunity for people to prosper, not just survive paycheck by paycheck. With that, I think I’m going to hand it over to you and the next panel to land our session today. We had two panels which were almost entirely women. This is the alternative, I guess. Counter protest or whatever.
I have a great panel here. These are three providers of earned wage access. The idea that the companies that allow workers to be able to access money they have already earned before payday. Imagine you have pay on a monthly basis and you are halfway through the month and you should have access to half of the money. You should be able to get money, half of the money you would normally get you should be able to access.
But payday isn’t for two more weeks. It is a FinTech solution that enables workers to be able to say please, you know what? I have got to pay some bills. Can I get what I already have earned? Can I get access to it, please?
These are the folks who help answer that call. Let me make it clear, this is not a loan. This is just enabling workers to have access to money they have already earned. It is their money. It is just enabling to get it earlier than ordinarily would be able to.
Given that, it is a pretty powerful tool, especially if there is a mismatch between your income and your expenses in terms of timing. This helps to smooth that timing issue. But it comes with some risks or challenges that we need to look at and we need to understand. So if we could start with Richard. Richard Kim from the Philippines.
Asia. We operate in seven countries. Excellent. So how do workers benefit from this service and what safeguards do you have in place to make sure that earned wage access does not have a negative effect on workers’ financial health? You are spot on on the point that it is a timing issue.
Obviously, if you are permanent workers, full-time workers, you get paid weekly or once a month depending on the market. If you work as part-time workers, they often get paid in 40 days. The month’s work has to be completed and it takes several days for HR to reconcile. If you are commission-based workers, they get paid in 60 days. Every month, the amount could vary depending on how they did the previous month.
So there is obviously a billstone for you. So you do want an ability to access those money when you need it. As you point out, it is the money you already earned. So one guard rail is the easiest one is actually setting the limit. We usually limit it by 30 to 50% of the base salary, not the overtime, not the bonuses.
So you would still have a meaningful amount at the end of the month. But ultimately, when it comes to the commission workers, it gets more difficult. So what we do is actually we actually discuss with the HR. HR knows best on the situation of the employees and ultimately, HR decides. We give an app to the individual, but HR gets the work.
So they determine the amount and they have the ability to increase, decrease, suspend. So at the end of the day, we are providing the financing and the solution. That’s the first guard rail. Second, what we wanted to do is we want people to be able to get through the week. So maybe it was through four times a month, once a week, four times.
But we are noticing people were drawing down more than that. They said, hey, where are you using this money for? And they wanted to pay for their mobile bills, their utilities. So we said, oh, let’s let them pay in-app for free. So we actually said we don’t have to make every dollar from the employee.
So it is actually a free service, peace of mind service for the employees. And for the employer, right, I mean, people, they don’t get disconnected. They are reachable. People can transport to work, right? So it’s good for the employees.
But ultimately, where we make it, we make a small commission from the TELCOs, the utilities. So we are trying to make it from the big guns. We are not trying to make every dollar from the worker. So that’s how there is another measure of safeguard. And then we looked at it, okay, and then a lot of them were saying we are buying groceries and we are buying clean petrol into my scooter.
And this is worth a $5 item. So even if we charge a very nominal fee, so this is still real time. So we introduce like a QR pay. So for a small ticket item, don’t use EWA. Just pay on site.
Then you don’t have to go through picking the money out of the ATM as well. So what we are trying to do is we keep asking where you need the money for, what are you saving for, and we keep coming up with solutions. A lot of the solutions actually is the workplace, it’s the employer asking us, hey, actually my people have this problem. Can you give me a solution? A lot of the service came about from the request.
And that’s why it’s the employer and us and the provider have to work really closely together to make it better. Sorry. That’s great. So you provide similar service in Mexico, correct? So it would be great to hear from your perspective, how do you make sure that workers are benefiting from this?
What sort of safeguards do you put in place? It starts with the work, the collaboration. It’s important to collaborate with the financial institutions, the banks, and also to the employers. Because at the end of the day, the three of us are looking forward to helping these guys. So basically what we do is three important milestones.
One of them, as Richard just commented, is to keep access only to a percentage of what they already actually earn. And the way we check that is go again to the collaboration, we should put the bank, we should put the employees, and basically we convert that to the 20 to 30% of what they actually will receive in their bank accounts. They have other deductions in their jobs. That’s one of the important guidelines. The other one is that everything that we ask for will be deducted completely in the next payroll.
Weekly, biweekly, monthly, or whatever the payroll is. So we just try to get in the same strategic or the same configuration all the employees have with their employees. So we’re trying to be part of a solution and not be part of a challenge. And the third, most important one, and that’s what it is, it divides the way we started this conversation is difference between a credit or a loan and an earned wages access. There is a service.
Each employee knows what that fee he’s going to pay before he asks for credit. So I think if not a product out there, and I have shared this thought with some of us in this business clause of law, if we show those three, it’s not a loan. It’s just giving you access. You have information, it’s deductible, and it’s one of the model priorities. So that’s for the same ones.
Thanks for that. Matt, you’re doing the same thing here in the U.S. Is that right? I am. And not a time to add to what the two of them have said. When we started this company in 2019, we’re headquartered in Birmingham, offices over in Atlanta.
We support employees in all 50 states throughout the U.S. Our big thing similar to these guys is flexibility and responsibility. You want to make sure that somebody still has a paycheck left over next Friday when they get paid to put caps and guardrails in place for the number of times they can use it, how much money they can pull out, et cetera. And then responsibility that really comes down to sitting down with an employer and saying what do you think are the responsible guardrails we should put in place. So that flexibility and responsibility is really what we have done and leaned into to grow the way we have grown over the past six years and similar to both of them. And the last panels talked a lot about financial education.
Was that not also a part of the process to be able to make sure that people understand what’s happening? It sure is. For us, it’s one of those things where the example, I think Arado and I talked about this last week when we were together in Europe, if you hand a 15-year-old the keys to a 911 Porsche, probably not going to go well, right? And so the idea is that when you go in and you start to help people access their pay early, you want to make sure that you are providing with financial education. And so we at immediate have financial education content.
We have an AI financial health coach that they can actually chat back and forth with directly inside the app. And then we do a monthly financial wellness newsletter where we make it seamless to serve up some of these financial wellness best practices, suggestions, thoughts, et cetera. And I know that other organizations here that we work with also highly encourage savings and making sure that people are on the right path. Robert mentioned it in his panel earlier. But you are talking about somebody’s lifelong financial wellness journey.
And this is just a piece of the puzzle. And so in a lot of cases what we find is that it’s people that are early in their career and you are trying to get them started with a really solid foundation so they don’t find themselves turning to a creditory title or payday loan which may create a cycle of debt that they can’t break. And so we are really giving them a responsible way to access their own pay versus turning to creditory third-party lenders. Excellent. I’m staying with you, Matt.
Presumably the employers also benefit from this. Is that true? They do. It was a lot harder to explain that to them early on. You would kind of say here is all the things that you are going to get out of it as an employer.
But after doing this for seven years we have got plenty of data that supports that. Of course, I guess the question of sleep, I never thought about that. That’s great. I need to talk to you more about that. That’s fascinating.
We saw a huge post-COVID, specifically I have a healthcare technology background. And so when we first got started it was kind of you know how to sell the healthcare. And so that’s what we went and did. We had a lot of healthcare clinics and they would say we just need people that are engaged. We have got nurses and clinicians that are burned out.
How can we get them more engaged? So that was kind of an intangible piece of the puzzle. We didn’t have a whole lot we could show them. What we have seen over time is that when we compare reduction and turnover of people that are enrolled versus not enrolled, turnover starts to drop. So there is a great example that I will get real briefly.
We work with an organization that has about 1,000 employees, 28 locations. It is a quick service restaurant in the southeast. And our average enrollment is usually in the 20 to 25% of an employee census. They are at 47%. And when we look at the turnover in that 47% versus the other 53%, quick service restaurant will see triple digit turnover year over year.
They had 28% less turnover in the 47% and they had 53%. So what that does obviously is it creates more continuity. They are going to provide better service to their customers and ultimately the CFO really loved it because it had a tangible impact at their bottom line. We don’t charge the employer anything for it, yet they got true value out of it. What about you, Richard?
Very similar story. So we are about to launch the COVID. We started in the second half of ’22. While we were preparing that, getting the license, our first actually employee customer was a walk-in. It was the biggest retailer in Malaysia.
It was 10,000 employees. Hey, is this all you are charging? Is there any hidden fees? No, there is no hidden fees. We are looking for mental health, financial health tools to help people coming out of COVID.
After a year, they did their own survey on the impact and this is the retailers, the industry, the turnover ratio in Malaysia is about 100%. So you are basically every one of your front line employee is changed in that year. And it dropped down to 60%. Which means that 40%, 4,000 people they don’t have to replace was obviously recruitment costs, training costs, hundreds of thousands of dollars. So what they did is, which is more amazing, in the second year when they were renewing, just renewing for the first time, they actually said, hey, we want to pay you some subscription fee.
Can you make some changes to your IT solution? And they said, okay, of course, happy to do it. So they saw the impact and they voluntarily, they chipped in. So again, we don’t have to make it all from the employees. We could, employers can also help out and the government can help out and others can help out.
Just to touch up on the ILO, the research. So 41%, 1500 people that surveyed, 41% said the relationship was their employer improved. 46% said when they are looking for a next job, they want an EWS. Having an EWS is important to them. And that came out of the ILO.
Excellent. Aroldo, what about your experience with benefiting employers? Well, I think the first part here, that if you think globally, it is conscious who has service providers, it is happening the same. So as in Asia or UK or the United States or in Mexico, we are doing the same. We have been doing this for over 10 years.
It was very complicated. We were lucky to have someone at the door. But we have seen the same change. So after all these years, we have seen that 50% of the user data, they have access to this, all users. We know that three or four persons normally use it because they need to pay something that is essential as a bill or as a medicine.
We give the service 24/7. And also what is very important for the employer is that before these kind of services, normally the employer had to resolve their problem for them. They had to be there and help in some way. So it will be a burden for human resources just to administrate a part that is off the books but have to help you. If they don’t help you, they won’t fix that problem.
I will give you just a little expertise that we found. We were at this company and they didn’t want to give us the contract. So basically said no because this is a no. We can’t convince them. So when we are going out and they share with the factory, there was a big line outside.
And all these people were in an ATM. We could see that one of the front desk went back to line and the other went back to line. So it was like what they are doing. So we went to desk. So it was a Friday, 5:00.
And basically what they were doing, they were checking their balance, their payroll as a peer. But if they didn’t check, it would be a charge. So they went to the end of the line and now it is your turn to check it. So your bank account is in everybody’s bank account. So I asked him why don’t you check tomorrow.
So the response was interesting. He said well, I need the money just for my home because I need to place food on the table in my house. So they gave us the contract. So that is the pain that we are going to solve right there. And our service is going to be cheaper than the ATM.
And that is a common denominator that we follow or share and last week when you invited us to work on these guidelines, I think the common denominator was this. How can we solve a problem to be a collaboration of these guys who lose their difficult jobs. Yeah, helping the worker, helping the financial industry in having a new form of economy or microeconomy for these guys. So basically that is what we are understanding and finding. That’s great.
And just to elaborate on the point that you are making, these guys are part of a community practice of earned wage access providers that the ILO is facilitating and one of the things that this community identified that they felt they needed and they wanted was a good practice guide. The idea that making it clear to regulators but also to employers and to workers I assume that what should be good practices in providing earned wage access in order to make sure that they uphold the standards that are set in this guide. It is all voluntary at the moment but this is something that they are producing and hopefully will influence and make sure that other earned wage access providers follow similar approaches. I would say with you, Geraldo, could you explain a little bit about your business model and how are you able to provide these services sustainably? Yes.
Well, what we are talking I have been doing my homework and talking to different providers that I have found on the web or in different parts of the world and I see a comment in a minute or everybody is doing similar. Basically, it is always a fixed fee. If you charge a quantity of money for this service, it is going to be deducted with the payroll on the next payday but also the service will help you and you will have access to a lot of information. Now you can bring others to give service to you, like when you want to pay a bill or when you pay like we do, we can pay cell phones, we can pay electric bills but also we are connected to the funds for retirement in Mexico or these other services, we don’t charge anything. Basically, those providers will give us a commission to help them give access to all of these guys.
So at the end of the day, everybody wins. Now, they can save for their retirement. For them, it is free. We can just process that payment or well, I have also two daughters and I use it to pay their cell phones. So when they call me dad and my cell phone doesn’t work, basically what I do, I grab my phone and just say put 10 bucks in there so it will work.
I give the porch. So basically, our economics go around really being helpful for other guys and in a bridge between providers who needs this channel to go directly to employees just to end. I have seen that the people have a lot of use of the ways we are connected. We are on the first bank experience. It is a simple app.
We can do only a few of the things. It is easy to achieve and for some countries like Mexico, not everybody is banked but now it is just professional because if you have a bank account, if you have a service provider to help you with your bank account, now you can have access to earned wage. So basically, it is just a full economic scale. Thanks. Matt, what about you?
It is similar to there and I think it applies on similarities with most earned wage access companies. We have not had companies in the U.S. approach us and want to pay us. So I know we sent out this link out to our customers. If you are watching this and you would like to pay us, we would be happy. We would love to entertain you.
The way we have structured it, it is a nominal transaction fee. We charge a $3.50 flat rate fee and as we talked earlier, we put the caps and guardrails in place. We also, same thing as earlier, we talk about financial wellness and helping them on the lifelong journey as we offer free transaction. So if someone is planning ahead and they make a transaction in the future, they know that there is a bill that is due on Thursday and they go in on Tuesday and schedule that and they want to pay that on time as opposed to getting it with a late fee if they wait until Friday. We do that for free.
We give them three transactions. If they plan ahead, we have an immediate debit card where they can move money on to that for free and we monetize interchange on the back end. We also have a gift card marketplace where we have a strategic third-party partner that actually offers bonus funds in some cases of 10% to 20%. We see spikes on the holidays with people going in and making a $200 transaction where they get a 20% bonus and they get $240 on a gift card but they only had $200 that came out of their paycheck. So we don’t have any recurring status fees.
We don’t charge implementation fees. We make all of our revenue from those transaction fees. But what we found is it becomes very consistent and we can kind of, because of the data we have, we can kind of drill down and see the different types of businesses and what we will expect with enrollment and frequency of usage and things of that nature. So it kind of creates a, I would say it’s a quasi-recurring revenue stream because we see it pretty consistent. So based on this discussion in the previous panel, it sounds like this data is really key to the success of this model.
Richard, what about you? I mean, we began, yeah, seven habits. You will begin with the end of month. And then basically we looked at how much these people can afford, right? You know, 24 times a month.
But we are working in a different market. We are working in Southeast Asia where the GDP per capita is about 5,000 per head for Indonesia, Philippines and Vietnam. And if you go to like a rural area, the lunch money is about $2, urban area is $3. So I say how can I make the economics work with just making two, three dollars per employee? So that’s the starting point.
Then I said, okay, first of all, we have to get the cost of fund as low as possible. It was very difficult, but I went, it just happens to my two previous jobs that I worked at, Citi Bank and HSBC gave us social financing. And HSBC came from the finance, actually Citi gave us money from the global social finance. It is whatever the central bank rate plus about 1%. That is as low as it can get.
And then we also use the bank realm for this person. We didn’t use any aggregator. A lot of the markets, we actually make it free or near free. So to direct costs, we control this, right? Do as low as possible.
And having said that, the banks were convinced because we are only going to work with responsible employers who have a very, well, you know, credit, their credit is very sound. And obviously to the state in four years, we transacted over 300 million U.S. We haven’t lost a single dime. All our employees paid us back on time. And actually we haven’t lost a single customer. So it just keeps on growing.
The thing is, how we can make it is, okay, what if we have 1 million active users? Even if you make two or three dollars, that’s two or three million, more than enough for 60 people to stay afloat, right? So that was the beginning. We are already halfway there. But again, the central market, we put it together, 600 million people, 300 million economically active, 110 million in large groups, okay?
So even if we just win 1%, we can stay afloat, and we will be there in six months. So it took us four years and six months to get here. Another thing is like, we are betting on the scale, but it is the trust you build. Being the first financial platform, again, this society is very young. People in Vietnam, 70% are under 30.
Indonesia, 70% is under 35. So there is financial education, creating good habits, being responsible. So we do a lot of, and that’s why we love this ILO, that we come up with those education material together to blast it out. And that’s part of it. Another is because employers are basically doing all the communication, and there is no paid advertisement, right?
So there is no cost for operation. We have 60 people running seven countries. Thanks to the AI, actually, we don’t see any increase in cost even though there is increase in volume through automation. So actually, the FinTech, the lower, relatively lower cost of operation of FinTech is also kind of making it work, but also getting the employer to help us with the communication is also helping. So economics is welcome.
You can get to the scale. Yes. Excellent. So this is a deep dive into earned wage access, give you some insights as to how operators think and act and how they benefit workers and how they benefit employers and how they cover their expenses in the process of doing that. So I want to thank all of you for coming to this event and hopefully it’s been useful and interesting and got some good takeaways and look forward to how this evolves.
I’m sure we will continue to discuss financial health and earned wage access as a tool to achieve financial health again in the future. Thanks a lot.
